## 2111 - Equal Employment Opportunity

All personnel policies and practices of the Board of Education will be in accord with equal employment opportunity practices as determined by state and federal legislation. A job description and required qualifications for a position to be filled will be made available to all applicants. Equal employment opportunity means that equal employment possibilities are available to all protected groups and that no individual will be discriminated against because of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, disability, or unrelated abilities to perform the duties of the position.

The district's staffing plan should be designed to ensure that the public schools are continuously moving toward integrated staff at all levels, in all schools, and in other areas throughout the system.

The Board believes in the importance of the district's practices to support the concept of staff balance. Within each group of employees there will be represented, when possible, a cross-section of employees of different gender, racial and ethnic backgrounds, and length of administrative and teaching experience.

Under the balanced-staff concept, the staff and students will benefit greatly by having exposure to a diverse staff.

> Legal References:
> 
> * Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C., sub 2000e.
> * Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. Sec 621.
> * Executive Order 11246.
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * Connecticut Constitution Article I, Section 20; Amendment V Equal Rights Protection Amendment.
>   * 46a-51 (8), (17), (18) Discriminatory practices.
>   * 46a-58(a) Deprivation of rights.
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.
>   * 46a-79 State policy re employment of criminal offenders.
>   * 46a-80 Denial of employment based on prior conviction of crime.
>   * 10-153 Discrimination on account of marital status.
>   * PA 91-58 An act concerning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**
