## 2131 - Superintendent of Schools

### Appointment

The appointment of a Superintendent is a Board of Education (Board) responsibility. The Board may seek the advice and counsel of interested individuals or of an advisory committee, and it may choose consultants to assist in the selection. However final selection shall rest with the Board after thorough consideration of qualified applicants.

The Board will, by majority vote, elect and fix the term of office (not to exceed three (3) years) and the salary of the Superintendent who shall serve as executive officer of the Board and who shall have authority and responsibility for the supervision of the school system.

The Board must submit the name and address of the candidate who accepts the election as a new Superintendent to the Commissioner of Education within seven (7) days of the decision.

The Commissioner of Education shall inform the Board, in writing, of the certification status of the candidate, within fourteen (14) days after receiving the name of the candidate from the Board.

The Board will not allow a Superintendent to assume the duties and responsibilities of the position until the Commissioner of Education provides written confirmation to the Board that the person to be employed is properly certified. In addition, the Board may require qualifications in addition to those prescribed by the State Board of Education.

### Acting Superintendent Appointment

The Board may employ an Acting Superintendent, properly certified or not, for a probationary specified period, not to exceed one school year, with the approval of the Commissioner of Education. Such time may be extended by the Commissioner for good cause shown. During such probationary period, the Acting Superintendent shall assume all duties of the Superintendent for the time specified and shall successfully complete a school leadership program, approved by the State Board of Education, offered at a public or private institution of higher education in the State. At the conclusion of the probationary period, the Board may request the Commissioner of Education to grant a waiver of certification for the Acting Superintendent, allowing the Board, if desired, to appoint the Acting Superintendent as the District’s permanent Superintendent.

### Contract

At the time of employment or reemployment, the Board shall provide a written contract of employment which shall include, but not be limited to, salary employment benefits, and term of office of such Superintendent.

The Board believes that the legislation of policies is the most important function of a Board of Education, and that the execution of the policies should be the function of the Superintendent.

Note: The Commissioner many waive certification for a school superintendent who (1) has at least three years of experience in the past ten years as a certified administrator with a superintendent certificate issued by another state, or (2) has successfully completed the probationary period as an acting superintendent and the Commissioner deems the individual to be exceptionally qualified for the position of superintendent.

### Duties and Responsibilities

The Superintendent shall be the chief executive officer of the Board and the administrative head of all District schools. As such, he/she shall comply with all statutes and regulations as prescribed by law, will delegate authority for the operation of various segments of the school system, and shall be responsible to the Board for the results produced. Specific responsibilities shall include but not be limited to:

1. Administer the development and maintenance of a positive educational program designed to meet the needs of the District and to carry out the policies of the Board;

2. Recommend the number and types of positions required to provide proper personnel for the operation of such a program;

3. Recommend policies on organization, finance, instruction, school facilities, and other functions of the school program;

4. Nominate for appointment, to assign, and to define the duties of all personnel, subject to approval of the Board

5. Confer periodically with professional and lay groups concerning the school program and transmit to the Board suggestions gained from such conferences;

6. Supervise the preparation and presentation of the annual budget to the Board for its approval;

7. Keep the Board continually informed on the progress and condition of the schools;

8. Attend and participate in all meetings of the Board unless directed otherwise;

9. Conduct a continuous study of the School system’s curricula;

10. Conduct a continuous study of school space needs; and

11. Plan and supervise the transportation of District students in grades PK-12.

### Qualification and Responsibilities

By its nature, the position of Superintendent is an exacting position. In addition to the minimum duties specifically set forth by the Board, the Superintendent:

  shall be of good character and of unquestionable morals and integrity; 

  shall possess good judgment and common sense along with the ability to think clearly and independently relying on facts instead of prejudices;

  shall demonstrate business and educational acumen and leadership;

  shall be able and willing to accept responsibility for his actions and be able and willing to delegate authority to others, accepting appropriate responsibility for their actions.

The Superintendent shall have a strong personality and a capacity for maintaining the respect of education leaders in neighboring towns and throughout Connecticut.

### Superintendent Evaluation

Annually, the Board will evaluate the Superintendent in accordance with guidelines and criteria mutually determined and agreed upon by both the Board and the Superintendent.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-157 Superintendents. Relationship to local or regional board of education; written contract of employment, evaluation of superintendent by board of education, (as amended by P.A. 12-116, An Act Concerning Educational Reform)
>   * 1-222 Reports to state board of education

**Policy adopted: September 12, 2012**

