## 2140 - Superintendent of Schools

The Board of Education will by majority vote elect and fix the term of office (not to exceed three years) and the salary of the Superintendent who shall serve as chief executive officer of the Board and who shall have authority and responsibility for the supervision of the school system.

The Board of Education may not allow a Superintendent to assume the duties and responsibilities of the position until the Board receives written confirmation from the Commissioner of Education that the person to be employed is properly certified.

The Board of Education must submit to the Commissioner the name and address of the candidate within seven days of the decision of a person to accept the election as a new Superintendent of Schools.

The Commissioner shall inform the Board of Education in writing, of the certification status of the candidate within fourteen days after receiving the name of the candidate from the Board of Education.

At the request of the Superintendent at the time of employment or reemployment the Board shall provide a written contract of employment which shall include, but not be limited to, salary, employment benefits and term of office of such Superintendent.

As required by law, the Superintendent shall, at least three weeks before the annual town meeting, submit to the Board an annual report of the proceedings of the Board and of the condition of the schools, with plans and suggestions for their improvement.

Each year the Board will evaluate the Superintendent in accord with guidelines and criteria mutually determined and agreed upon by both the Board and the Superintendent.

The Board of Education may employ an acting Superintendent, properly certified or not, for a specified period not to exceed ninety days with the approval of the Commissioner.  Such time may be extended by the Commissioner for good cause shown.

> Legal Reference:  
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-157 Superintendents.

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**
