## 2231 - Policy and Regulation System

### Policy Manual

The Board of Education adopts the Davies-Brickell policy codification and dissemination system as sponsored by the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education.

The Superintendent of Schools shall establish and maintain an orderly plan for preserving and making accessible the policies adopted by the Board, the bylaws adopted by the Board, and the regulations of the administration.  The Board policies, the Board bylaws and the administrative regulations shall be published in a manual, maintained in current condition, and made available to all persons concerned.

### Policies

Policies are statements of intent which are adopted by the Board of Education.  They serve as guides to the administration in the development and implementation of regulations for operating the school system.

The Superintendent must take the leadership in the policy-making process, by recognizing the need for specific policies and giving the board proposed policy statements for consideration, modification and adoption  The Superintendent shall develop a regulation specifying the procedures by which policies will be developed and presented to the Board.

### Regulations

The Superintendent shall specify the required actions, and design the detailed arrangements under which the schools are to be operated.  Those regulations and procedures which apply throughout the school system are to be designated as “regulations,” and are to be placed in the school system's policies and regulations manual.  The regulations shall be presented to the Board before implementation in the school system, but the Board is encouraged not to adopt a regulation unless requested to do so by the Superintendent or unless adoption is required by federal or state law.  Administrative regulations must be consistent with the policies adopted by the Board of Education.

The Superintendent is responsible for development and implementation of the school system's regulations.  He\/she should, as a matter of good administrative procedure, develop a system whereby staff members are involved in development of regulations in order to make certain that each regulation is complete, efficient, sufficient to the need, consistent with adopted Board policy, and capable of full implementation.

### Bylaws

Bylaws are the rules governing the internal operations of the Board of Education.  When need for a new bylaw, or modification of an existing bylaw is recognized, the Superintendent will be directed to develop and present the Board with an effective new or modified bylaw for consideration, modification if necessary, and adoption.  The same procedure used for development of policies shall be used for development of bylaws.

\(cf. [9311](/policies/9000/9311.md) - Formulation, Adoption, Amendment of Policies\)

\(cf. 9312 - Formulation, Adoption, Amendment of Bylaws\)

\(cf. [9313](/policies/9000/9313.md) - Formulation, Adoption, Amendment of Administrative Regulations\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-220 Duties of boards of education
>   * 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**

