## 9121 - Chairperson

The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Killingly Board of Education and shall perform other duties as directed by law, State Department of Education regulations, and by this Board.  In carrying out these responsibilities, the Chairperson shall:

1.  Sign the instruments, acts, and orders necessary to carry out state requirements and the will of the Board.
2.  Consult with the Superintendent and the Vice-Chairperson of the Board in the planning of the Board's agendas.
3.  Confer with the Superintendent on crucial matters that may occur between Board meetings.
4.  Appoint Board committees.
5.  Call special meetings of the Board as necessary.
6.  Be public spokesperson for the Board at all times except as this responsibility is specifically delegated to others.
7.  Be responsible for the orderly conduct of all Board meetings.
8.  Assume such other duties as may be authorized by the Board.
9.  Appoint a recording secretary/clerk.
10.  The Board Chairperson can vote at all Board sub-committees and can be counted for purposes of a quorum.

As presiding officer at all meetings of the Board, the Chairperson shall:

1.  Call the meeting to order at the appointed time.
2.  Announce the business to come before the Board in its proper order.
3.  Enforce the Board's policies relating to the order of business and the conduct of the meetings.
4.  Recognize persons who desire to speak, and protect the speaker who has the floor from disturbance or interference.
5.  Explain what the effect of a motion would be if it is not clear to every member.
6.  Restrict discussion to the question when a motion is before the Board.
7.  Answer all parliamentary inquiries, referring questions of legality to the Board attorney.
8.  Put motions to a vote, stating definitely and clearly the vote and result thereof.

The Chairperson shall have the right, as other Board members have, to offer resolutions, discuss questions, and to vote.

(cf. [9020](9020.md) - Public Statements)

(cf. [9325](9325.md) - Meeting Conduct)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-218 Officers.  Meetings.

**Adopted:  March 10, 1999**

**Revised:  June 4, 2008**

**Revised:  May 22, 2014**

**Adopted:  June 4, 2014**