## 9123 - Vice-Chairperson/Secretary

The Board of Education, at its organizational meeting, shall by a majority of its number (9) elect from its members a Vice-Chairperson/Secretary for the Board.  The public title of this office shall be “Vice-Chairperson”.  In accordance with CGS 10-224, the Vice-Chairperson shall be responsible for seeing that an accurate record of the proceedings of the Board of Education is maintained.

In addition, the Vice-Chair shall preside over meetings in the absence of the Chairperson, sign official documents as required, and, in the absence of the Chairperson, assume all duties of the Chairperson as specified in Bylaw #9121.  The Chairperson may also delegate any or all of the duties specified to the Vice-Chairperson, at his/her discretion.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-218 Officer. Meetings
* 10-224 Duties of Secretary
* 10-221 Salaries of Secretary and Attendance Officers

**Adopted:  March 10, 1999**

**Revised:  June 4, 2008**

### Agenda Construction

A.  The Superintendent in cooperation with the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson (or designee) of the Board of Education shall prepare an agenda for each meeting.

B.  In addition to those items listed by the Chairperson of the Board, any member of the Board may contact the Chairperson or the Superintendent and request that an item be placed on the agenda.

  1.  Such request should be made to the Chairperson no later than seventy-two (72) hours and it is left to the Chairperson’s sole discretion.
  2.  If at least three Board members make the request, however, it must be placed on the agenda.

### Posting of Agenda

A.  At least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time of the regular (or special) meeting, an agenda will be constructed and posted by the Superintendent of Schools for the Board of Education.

B.  An agenda will be posted at the Town Hall and the Administrative Offices of the Board of Education.

C.  The Board may add items to the agenda of any regular meeting by a two-thirds vote of those Board members present and voting.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

 * 1-225 Meetings of government agencies to be public
   * Recording of votes.  Schedule and agenda of meetings to be filed.
   * Notice of special meetings.  Executive sessions.

**Adopted:  March 10, 1999**

**Revised:**

 * February, 11, 2004
 * October 10, 2007
 * June 4, 2008