## 9130 - Committees

Committees of the Killingly Board of Education shall be established biennially \(post-election\) at the first regularly scheduled meeting in December, or as needed.

The reconstitution of committees other than at the established times must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the Board.

Duties of each ad-hoc committee shall be determined as a committee is formed.

Each committee may make a report through its chairperson or designee at each regular meeting of the Board of Education.  Meeting agendas shall include a provision for approval of previous meeting minutes.

If the chairperson of a committee is unable to attend a meeting, they may appoint a designee for that meeting to conduct the business of the committee in their stead.

No committee shall have power other than to recommend to the Board of Education unless specially authorized. No committee, or member of a committee, is authorized to make any contract or enter into any agreement which involves the expenditure of money, unless such contract or agreement is authorized by the Board either in regular or special meeting.

All committees of the Board of Education shall follow the provisions of the Freedom Of Information Act as required by statute.

\(cf. [9132](/policies/9000/9132.md) - Standing Committees\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 1-7 through 1-21k Freedom of Information Act.
>   * 1-18a Definitions.
>   * 1-21a Meetings of government agencies to be public.

**Policy Adopted:  March 10, 1999**

**Revised**:
* **May 22, 2014**
* **January 11, 2017**


