## 9132 - Standing Committees

The Killingly Board of Education shall operate and maintain the following standing committees:

* Curriculum
* Fiscal
* Policy
* Community Engagement
* Personnel Committee

### Frequency of Meetings

Standing committees shall meet at least bimonthly \(every two months\) during the school year, and may convene more frequently at the discretion of the committee chair or at the request of the Chairperson of the Board.

### Responsibilities of Standing Committees

#### Curriculum

The Curriculum Committee is responsible for reviewing issues concerning programs, services, and data related to curriculum, instruction and assessment, and, when appropriate, making recommendations to the Board.  The primary responsibility of the committee is to work with the administration to develop and assess programs and services to meet the educational needs of the community; the committee will also review recommended textbooks for Board approval.

The committee may also be responsible for other tasks that the Board of Education deems appropriate.

#### Fiscal

The Fiscal Committee is responsible for reviewing issues concerning the financial status of the Board of Education, and, as appropriate, making recommendations to the Board.  The primary responsibility of the committee is to advise the administration in the development and presentation of the yearly budget for the operation of the school district.  The committee may also advise the administration in the pursuit of policies and practices that will result in the fiscally sound operation of the district.

The committee may also be responsible for other tasks that the Board of Education deems appropriate to Fiscal.

#### Personnel

The Personnel Committee is responsible for reviewing issues concerning negotiations, leaves of absences, superintendent evaluation process, review of new proposed positions, and hiring practices.

The committee may also be responsible for other tasks that the Board of Education deems appropriate to Personnel.

#### Policy

The Policy Committee is responsible for reviewing issues concerning the operating policies and regulations of the district and the bylaws and regulations of the Board of Education.  When appropriate, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board.

The primary responsibility of the committee is to advise and direct the administration in the development of policies, bylaws and regulations to guide the efficient and effective management of the district.  The Committee is charged with the following:  formulate policies, bylaws and regulations to be presented to the entire Board for action; suggest amendments and revisions of existing policies; and conduct regular reviews of the policy manual.

The Committee may also be responsible for other tasks that the Board of Education deems appropriate to Policy.

#### Community Engagement

It is the responsibility of every board member to relate to the community in many ways.  The scope of this committee is very broad.  It should maintain a constant out-reach to the district using all available media, establish a speakers bureau to explain new changes in the schools, publish a newsletter, maintain a dialogue with parents and taxpayers.

#### Ad-hoc Committees

Ad-hoc committees may be created as deemed necessary by the Board of Education.

### Committee Membership

The Chairperson of the Killingly Board of Education shall make appointments to each committee.

1. Appointments to standing committees and liaisons shall be for two years
2. The Chairperson shall appoint no more than four, no less than three, members to a committee.
3. Liaison assignments are not considered to be committees.
4. Any member of the Board who is interested in serving on a particular committee should notify the Chairperson promptly concerning their interest, and the Chairperson shall give due consideration to such requests.
5. Each Board member must be appointed to serve on at least one standing committee, unless the Board member has clearly articulated an inability to serve.
6. A chairperson shall be elected at the first meeting of each committee and will be responsible for record keeping duties for that committee.
7. The Board Chairperson shall serve as an ex-officio member on all committees.

### Record Keeping

All committees shall keep minutes of all business conducted at meetings.  The minutes shall be distributed within seventy-two \(72\) hours to all Board of Education members and kept on file in the Central Administrative Office.

### Liaison Positions

The Chairperson of the Board of Education shall appoint a Board member to serve as a liaison to the following:

* EASTCONN
* CABE
* Parks and Recreation Commission
* Town Council
* Joint Services Committee
* Cable Advisory Board
* Other organizations, committees or commissions as deemed appropriate

\(cf. [9130](/policies/9000/9130.md) - Committees\)

\(cf. [9326](/policies/9000/9326.md) - Minutes\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 1-7 through 1-21k Freedom of Information Act
>   * 1-18a Definitions
>   * 1-21 Meetings of government agencies to be public

**Policy Adopted: May 12, 1999**

**Revised: November 5, 2008**

**Revised: May 22, 2014**

**Policy Adopted: June 18, 2014**

**Revised: June 22, 2016**

