## 9160 - Student Representation On The Board of Education

It will be the policy of the Killingly Board of Education to seat two students from Killingly High School, in a nonvoting capacity, at all public Board of Education meetings. Student opinion will be solicited to give an added dimension to the Board's decision-making process.

The two student Board of Education members will not attend executive sessions of the Board nor will they have access to associated back-up materials.

The following procedure will be followed for the seating of the student board members:

1.  Any sophomore or junior who is interested in becoming a student Board of Education member must submit a letter of intent to the principal and the Board of Education during the month of April.  (Students are not prohibited from also seeking an additional class office.)
2.  A subgroup of the Board of Education will interview, as a group, the interested students.  After this interview, the subgroup of the Board will narrow down the field to approximately six finalists.
3.  The finalists will meet and participate in a mock Board meeting with the subgroup of the Board.  Following the mock Board meeting, the subgroup of the Board will select the two student Board members.  The new student Board members should be available to attend the final June Board of Education meeting for introduction purposes and will assume their seats on the Board of Education beginning July 1st.
4.  The term of office for the two student Board members shall be for one calendar year. A student board member may run for a subsequent term.
5.  The student Board members should be available for attendance at all regular and special Board of Education meetings. They may also attend subcommittee meetings (not executive sessions) if they so choose.
6.  If attendance at a regular of special Board meeting is not possible, the student Board member should advise the Principal’s and the Superintendent's office in advance of the meeting.
7.  The student Board members will report to the student body, through their student council representatives, on the deliberations of the Board of Education.
8.  A student Board member may be removed from his/her position as a nonvoting member of the Board of Education, with or without cause, by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Board. In such case, her/his position may be offered to another interested student.
9.  A student Board of Education member shall:
  1.  Be able to attend and sit on all regular and special meetings of the Board      of Education, but not during executive sessions.
  2.  During regular and special meetings meetings, be able to speak on any issue on the agenda or motion before the Board unless deemed inappropriate by the Board or Board Chairperson.
  3.  At least one week prior to a Board of Education meeting, be able to ask the Chairperson to consider placing a specific item on the agenda.
  4.  Receive copies of all regular and special meeting agendas, minutes and other pertinent publications, excluding executive session materials.
  5.  Be expected to attend all the regular and special Board of Education meetings and be accountable to the student body via the student organizations.
10.  A student Board of Education member shall not:
  1. Be able to cast an official vote on any motion or resolution.
  2. Be allowed to attend executive sessions.
  3. Be allowed to attend negotiation sessions or personnel sessions of the Board of Education unless those meetings are in public session.
11.  Only those privileges and powers enumeration here shall be regarded specifically as such. Any and all other powers and privileges that might be deemed appropriate for the student Board members shall be decided upon by the Board of Education.
12.  One member of the Board of Education shall be appointed by the Chairperson to serve as a Mentor to the student Board members.  This person shall provide guidance and be available to assist the student Board members.
13.  The Board of Education or the subgroup of the Board may, at any time and without notice, change the process and procedure for selecting or retaining student Board members.

> Legal References: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 9-203 Number and term of members of Boards of Education

**Regulation reviewed:  November 9, 2005**
