## 9270 - Conflict of Interest

The Board desires its members not only to adhere to all laws regarding conflict of interest, but to be continually aware of situations which have the appearance of conflict of interest and to avoid actions that might embarrass themselves or the Board.

Two areas of Board operations must be guarded with particular care in order that there be no real or seeming conflict of interest. These are purchasing and hiring of new personnel. Therefore:

1.  No member of the Board shall have any direct pecuniary interest in a contract with the school district, nor shall he/she furnish directly any labor, equipment, or supplies the district. It is not the intent of this bylaw to prevent the district from contracting with corporations or businesses because a Board member is an employee of the firm. However, in such instances the member must declare his/her association with the firm and must remove him/herself from the entire process.

2.  If a member of the immediate family of a board member--specifically parent/guardian, spouse, child or grandchild -- is being considered for employment, assignment or promotions the provisions of Bylaw 9010 will apply and no Board member shall participate in any discussion, debate or vote.

3.  The Board shall not give preferential treatment to companies in which town officials or paid town employees, have a major financial interest or to companies by which they are employed.

4.  No Board member shall use his or her position to influence an employment or contractual decision other than those routinely made by the Board itself.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 7-479 Conflicts of Interest.
* 10-156e Employees of boards of education permitted to serve as elected officials; exception.
* 10-232 Restrictions on employment of members of the board of education.

**Bylaw adopted by the Board:  March 10, 1999**