## 9271 - Code of Ethics

As a guide to performing their duties, Board members should:

1.  Be an advocate of high quality free public education for all Connecticut children.

2.  As an agent of the state, uphold and enforce all laws, rules, regulations and court orders pertaining to public schools, and bring about any needed change only through legal and ethical means.

3.  Help create public schools which meet the individual educational needs of all children regardless of their ability, race, creed, sex, physical condition or social standing.

4.  Work to help the community to understand the importance of proper support for public education.

5.  Become informed about the nature, value and direction of contemporary education and support needed change in the schools.

6.  Serve as a communications link between the community and the schools, working to ensure that the community is fully and accurately informed about the schools, and that the school staff understands the aspirations and desires of the community.

7.  Recognize that a Board member's responsibility is not to "run the schools," but to see that they are well-run through effective policies.

8.  Confine Board action to policymaking, planning, and appraisal, and consult with those who will be affected by the Board's actions.

9.  Arrive at conclusions after fully discussing the issue at an open meeting, and abide by the principle of majority rule.

10.  Recognize that authority rests only with the whole Board assembled in a meeting, and make not personal promises nor take any private action that may compromise the Board.

11.  Never use the position on the Board for personal gain.

12.  Hold confidential all matters pertaining to the schools that, if disclosed, might needlessly injure individuals or the schools.

13.  Ensure that all school business transactions be open and ethical.

14.  Ensure that the best personnel available are appointed to all positions in the district.

15.  Refer all complaints through the proper "chain of command" within the system, and act on such complaints at public meetings only when administrative solutions fail.

**Bylaw adopted by the Board:  March 10, 1999**