## 9321 - Time, Place and Notification of Meetings

### Regular Meetings

Regular meetings of the Board of Education shall be held on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at a place to be designated by the Board of Education or such other time and place as the Board may designate by a majority vote at its preceding meeting.  The Board of Education will not hold regular meetings during the months of July and August.  The Board will not normally schedule meetings during school holidays or vacation periods.

### Adjournment

A time of adjournment for regular meetings will be no later than 11:00 p.m. unless this rule is waived by a two-thirds vote of the Board members present.  When time of adjournment is called and discussion and/or action of agenda items has not been completed, the meeting will be carried over to another designated time.

### Special Meetings

The Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson, upon written orders from the Chairperson or at least three (3) members of the Board, shall be empowered to call special meetings and shall give notice of time and place of special meetings and reasons therefore by phone, email or personal delivery to the normal places of abode of all Board of Education members and the Superintendent at least 24 hours before the time of such meeting; members shall confirm receipt by phone or email.

Notice of each special meeting of the Board shall be given not less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time of such meeting by filing a notice of the time and place thereof in the Office of the Town Clerk.

A newspaper(s) having general circulation in town shall be notified by the Superintendent at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time of said meeting.  Agendas will be posted on the Killingly Public Schools’ website, [www.killinglyschools.org](http://killinglyschools.org).

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 1-21 Meetings of government agencies to be public.
>   * 1-21c Mailing of notice of meetings to persons filing written request.
>   * 1-21f Regular meetings to be held pursuant to regulation, ordinance or resolution.
>   * 1-21i Denial of access to public records or meetings. Notice. Appeals
>   * 10-218 Officers. Meetings

**Adopted by Board:  March 10, 1999**

**Revised:  November 3, 2010**
