## 9322 - Public and Executive Sessions

### Public Sessions

All meetings of the Board of Education for the transaction of business shall be open to the public unless by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members present.  The Board shall cast this vote in a public session in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes, subsection (e) of Section 1-18a (of the Freedom of Information Act) with regard to executive sessions.

Upon the affirmative vote of two thirds of the members of the Board of Education present and voting, any business not included in such filed agenda may be considered and acted upon at such meetings.

### Executive Session

1.  Executive sessions of the Board may be held as provided in Section 1-18a and Section 1-19 of the Freedom of Information Act.

2.  When possible, executive sessions will be scheduled at a time to be determined by the Chairman but normally from 7:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.

3.  When there is discussion concerning a particular employee, that employee must be notified and may request the discussion be held at an open meeting.

4.  When the Board meets in executive session for purposes included above, it is necessary that the Board’s confidence be maintained.  The content of the executive session is not to be discussed outside the executive session.  The Board depends on the integrity of each of its members, and any others present, to protect its proper interests and the interests of its employees.

5.  If, in the considered opinion of a member, a discussion inappropriate to executive session is taking place, or a particular employee is being discussed without notification, the Board member can raise a point of order at the table.  If not satisfied at the end of the meeting, the member’s responsibility includes a full discussion of the issue with the Chairperson before any other action is considered.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 1-18a Definitions.
>   * 1-19 Access to public records.
>   * 1-21 Meetings of government agencies to be public.
>   * 1-21a Recording, broadcasting or photographing meetings.
>   * 1-21b Smoking prohibited in certain places.
>   * 1-21i Denial of access to public records or meetings.
>   * 1-21g Executive sessions.

**Bylaw adopted by the Board:  March 10, 1999**
