## 9323 - Agenda

### Agenda Construction

1. The Superintendent in cooperation with the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson (or designee) of the Board of Education shall prepare an agenda for each meeting.

1.  In addition to those items listed by the Chairperson of the Board, any member of the Board may contact the Chairperson or the Superintendent and request that an item be placed on the agenda.

  1.   Such request should be made to the Chairperson no later than seventy-two (72) hours and it is left to the Chairperson’s sole discretion.

  2.  If at least three Board members make the request, however, it must be placed on the agenda.

### Posting of Agenda

A.  At least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time of the regular (or special) meeting, an agenda will be constructed and posted by the Superintendent of Schools for the Board of Education.

B.  An agenda will be posted at the Administrative Offices of the Board of Education and the Killingly Public Schools' website (www.killinglyschools.org), and will be provided to the Town of Killingly for posting at the Killingly Town Hall and the Town of Killingly website (killinglyct.gov).

C. The Board may add items to the agenda of any regular meeting, but not a special meeting, by a two-thirds vote of those Board members present and voting.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 1-225 Meetings of government agencies to be public
>     * Recording of votes.  Schedule and agenda of meetings to be filed.
>     * Notice of special meetings.  Executive sessions.

**Adopted:  March 10, 1999**

Revised:  

* February, 11, 2004
* October 10, 2007
* June 4, 2008
* November 5, 2008
* November 9, 2016

