## 9325 - Meetings

### Meeting Conduct

Meetings of the Board of Education shall be conducted by the Chairperson in a manner consistent with the adopted bylaws of the Board.

All Board meetings shall commence at the stated time and shall be guided by an agenda which has been prepared and delivered in advance to all Board members and other designated persons.

The conduct of meetings shall, to the fullest possible extent, enable members of the Board to (1) consider problems to be solved, weigh evidence related thereto, and make wise decisions intended to solve the problems, and (2) receive, consider and take any needed action with respect to reports of accomplishment of students or of school system operations.

Provisions for permitting any individual or group to address the Board concerning any subject that lies within its jurisdiction shall be as follows:

1.  Five minutes may be allotted to each speaker and a maximum of twenty minutes to each subject matter.

2.  No boisterous conduct shall be permitted at any Board of Education meeting.  Persistence in boisterous    conduct shall be grounds for summary termination, by the Chairperson, of that person's privilege of address.  If necessary, the Chairperson may clear the room so that the Board can continue the meeting.

3.  Speakers may offer objective criticism of district operations and programs, but the Board encourages members of the public to address complaints concerning individual district personnel through the proper chain of command. The Chairperson may direct the member of the public to the appropriate means to address concerns brought before the Board; however the Board will not respond with action but will take comments under advisement and direct the comments to the appropriate staff member to address outside of the Board meeting.

4.  Speakers are asked to express themselves in a civil manner, with due respect for the dignity and privacy of others who may be affected by their comments. While it is not the Board's intent to stifle public comment, speakers should be aware that if their statements violate the rights of others under the law of defamation or invasion of privacy, the speaker may be held legally responsible. Speakers unsure of the legal ramification of what they are about to say are urged to consult first with their legal advisor.

### Actions by the Board

Board of Education shall acknowledge in writing any citizen who addresses said Board in writing within two weeks of the meeting at which said comments were presented.

The Board of Education may adjourn any regular or special meeting to a specified time and place.

If all members of the Board are absent, the clerk may adjourn the meeting.  A copy of the notice of adjournment shall be conspicuously displayed near the meeting room door at the time of adjournment within twenty-four hours of adjournment.

No action will be taken unless the subject acted upon was listed in the agenda published for that meeting, except that an item of business not included on the agenda of a regular meeting may be considered and acted upon after a two-thirds vote of the members present and voting to add such business to the agenda.

The Board of Education shall not adopt resolutions except where such adoption is required by law, or where the intent of the Board is to publish a status position of the Board, as in advising the General Assembly of the Board's position on a proposed law, or commending staff members or other agencies for work well done.

All actions taken by the Board shall be identified clearly in minutes of the Board meeting as provided in Bylaw 9326, Minutes.

(cf. 1120 - Board of Education Meetings re Public Participation)

(cf. 1312 - Public Complaints)

(cf. 9321 - Time, Place, Notification of Meetings)

(cf. 9322 - Public and Executive Sessions)

(cf. 9323 - Construction/Posting of Agenda)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 1-200 Definitions.
* 1-206 Denial of access of public records or meetings.  Notice.  Appeal.
* 1-210 Access to public records.
* 1-225 Meetings of government agencies to be public.
* 1-226 Recording, broadcasting or photographing meetings.
* 19a-342 Smoking prohibited in certain places.  Sign required.  Penalty.
* 1-231 Executive sessions.
* 1-232 Conduct of meetings (re disturbances).
* 10-224 Duties of the Secretary.
* 
**Approved:  April 8, 2015**