## 6010 - Goals and Objectives

The Board of Education establishes the following goals for the instructional program:

1.  Each child’s diverse, academic, social and emotional needs will be addressed by a challenging, motivating and thought-provoking core education experience which includes exemplary opportunities in the arts and physical educational.

2.  To provide an educational program that challenges each student yet minimizes failure. Everyone willing to make the effort to work and learn should be able to achieve a certain measure of success;

3.  By the fourth grade, each child will read, write, compute and use thinking skills necessary to continue learning.

4.  Each high school graduate will demonstrate proficiency in English and another language, in mathematics, in the natural and social sciences, in technology and in the arts and humanities.

5.  All professional development will support school goals to improve student achievement. These efforts will draw upon teacher expertise and will advance the knowledge and skills of instructional staff.

6.  To create a learning process that emphasizes human worth and incorporates real and relevant experiences that students may identify with and learn from easily.

7.  Teachers and students will utilize technology as an instructional tool, allowing for skill development, worldwide communication and an exchange of intellectual resources.

8.  To ensure a demanding educational experience, there will be an established cycle of assessment.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-4a Educational interests of state defined, as amended by PA 97-290, An Act Enhancing Educational Choices and Opportunities.
>   * 10-220 Duties of Boards of Education.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

