## 6112 - School Day

Each school day, including days shortened for staff in-service activities, parent conferences or other activities, must meet, for purposes of apportionment, the statutory requirement of providing at least four hours of actual school work for students, except that in kindergarten, a continuous session of two and one-half hours may be considered as a school day. Any school session of at least two hours, but less than four hours of actual school work, may be counted as a half day.

In the event of dismissal of school because of weather conditions, completion of the regular morning session may be considered a school day. The kindergarten session will be considered a school day where school is dismissed because of weather conditions or a scheduled early closing, regardless of its length.

### Number of School Days

This school system must by law provide in each school year no less than 180 days of actual school sessions for kindergarten through grade 12, and 900 hours of actual school work for grades 1 through 12. No more than seven (7) hours of actual school work in any school day may be counted toward the total required for the school year. Graduation shall not be held until 180 days and 900 hours of actual school work are completed.

### Length of School Day: Special Education

Unless otherwise specified in a child’s individualized education program, the minimum day and year for children requiring special education and related services shall be the same as that for children in the regular education program.

Total travel time shall not exceed one hour each way to and from a special education facility, unless parental consent and approval of the State Board of Education are obtained.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-15 Towns to maintain schools.

* 10-16 Length of school day (as amended by PA-161 An Act Concerning Reduction of Education Mandates).

* 10-16b Prescribed courses of study.

* 10-220 Duties of boards of education.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

