## 6114 - Emergencies and Disaster Preparedness

All employees of the school system are responsible for doing everything in their power to promote the safety of all of the students at all times.

The administration shall require building Principals to maintain working regulations and procedures for fire, civil defense, and other emergencies.

Every effort shall be made to maintain the fire alarm system, regular and emergency exits of all buildings, fire prevention measures, and a sensitivity among students and employees to the importance of smooth working emergency procedures.

### First Aid

At least one person at each school site should be trained in first aid and/or possess CPR certification.

### School Closing For Emergency Conditions

Every attempt will be made to keep schools open according to the calendar approved by the Board of Education.  However, there are times when emergency closing of schools is necessary.

Closing of school, late opening, or early dismissal for inclement weather or emergency conditions will be decided by the Superintendent of Schools or designee based upon the best possible information available.

In case of closing for weather or emergencies, administrators and non-certified personnel should make every effort to reach their assigned duties as soon as roads are passable or the emergency condition is deemed safe by school administrators.

Emergency or discretionary leave may be used for those unable to reach a building unless the Superintendent feels conditions are severe enough that all employees are dismissed from attending work.

Every effort should be made to notify employees of the status of opening, either by phone or through radio broadcasts.

If additional days need to be added to the calendar to reach the mandated 180 days or 900 hours of instruction, the decision will be made by the Board of Education.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-231 Fire Drills

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

