## 6114.1 - Fire Emergency

A fire drill shall be held at least once a month in each school building.  A crisis response drill shall be substituted for one of the required monthly school fire drills every three months. Each Building Principal shall prepare a definite fire emergency plan, and furnish to all teachers and students information as to route and manner of exit.  Fire drills shall be planned in such a way as to accomplish the evacuation of school buildings in the shortest possible time and in the most efficient and orderly fashion.

Principals shall keep a record of all fire drills and crisis response drill, held in their schools, stating the date the drill was held and the time required for evacuation of the building.  They shall furnish such reports to the Superintendent or his designate as may from time to time be required.

\(cf. [3516](/policies/3000/3516.md) - Safety\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-231 Fire drills.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

**Policy revised:  June 22, 2016**

---

In the event that fire is discovered in the school plant, the fire department shall be called immediately following giving the signal to evacuate the building.

The Principal shall hold at least one fire drill each month in which all students, teachers and other employees shall be required to leave the school building.

1. Students must leave the building in an orderly and rapid manner and teachers are required to check to ascertain that no student remains in the building.

2. Real emergencies often call for alternate exits to be used. Teachers must be prepared to select and direct their classes to these alternate exits in the event the designated escape route is blocked. This demands close control of students.

3. A record shall be kept in the Principal’s office of each fire drill conducted. A copy of the record shall also be filed in the office of the Superintendent.


Principals and teachers shall recognize that the essential element in any emergency is prevention of panic. Principal and teachers shall afford students such confidence as clarity of direction and supervision can contribute.

\(cf. [3516](/policies/3000/3516.md) - Safety\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-231 Fire drills

**Regulation approved:**

* **December 8, 2004**
* **June 22, 2016**

