## 6114.3 - Bomb Threats

The Board strongly disapproves of any action by any person that seriously disrupts the educational process.  Particularly reprehensible is making a threat that a bomb has been placed in a school. 

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

1.  Upon receipt of a bomb threat, the recipient will immediately notify the building Principal or person in charge.

2.  The Principal or his/her designee will immediately contact the fire and police chiefs and office of the Superintendent concerning the threat, as per prior arrangement.

3.  The Principal or his/her designee will direct the evacuation of all personnel from the building, following established fire drill procedures.

  a.  In inclement weather, the discretion of allowing building occupants to obtain their coats will be reviewed and determined.

4.  Teachers are to maintain students in an orderly fashion a safe distance away from the building and are to take attendance upon reaching the assigned area. It is expected that teachers will remain with their respective groups until relieved by order of an administrator.

5.  Volunteers from the custodial and teaching staff may assign the fire and police personnel in search of the building if they so desire.

6.  In certain instances, after first checking and deeming safe an auditorium or gymnasium, students may be moved into these areas.

7.  Faculty and staff will not touch or move a suspected bomb.

8.  When the “All Clear” is given by the fire chief and/or chief of police, the students, at the discretion of the Principal or his/her designee, will return to the building.

9.  Staff members are not to leave the school premises during school emergencies until they are properly dismissed by an administrator.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

