## 6121 - Nondiscrimination in the Instructional Program

The school system pledges itself to avoid discriminatory actions, and instead seeks to foster good human and educational relations which will help to attain:

*  equal rights and opportunities for students and employees in the school community.

*  equal opportunity for all students to participate in the total program of the schools.

*  continual study and development of curricula toward improving human relations and understanding and appreciating cultural differences.

*  training opportunities for improving staff ability and responsiveness to educational and social needs.

*  opportunities in educational programs which are broadly available to students with access not solely based upon race, color, religious creed, age, marital status, national origin, sex or physical disability:

*  an appropriate learning environment for students which includes (1) adequate instructional books, supplies, materials, equipment, staffing, facilities and technology, (2) equitable allocation of resources among district schools and (3) a safe school setting.

Each student, at the time s/he becomes eligible for participation, will be advised of his/her right to an equal opportunity to participate in school programs without discrimination of any kind.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-15 Towns to maintain schools.
>   * 10-15c Discrimination in public school prohibited.
>   * 10-18a Contents of textbooks and other general instructional materials.
>   * 10-226a Pupils of racial minorities.
>   * 10-145a(b) Certificates of qualification for teachers; Intergroup relations programs.
>   * 10-220 Duties of boards of education, as amended by PA 97-290, An Act Enhancing Educational Choices and Opportunities.
> * Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C., 1681 et seq. Section 504, U.S. Rehabilitation Act, 1973, 29 U.S.C. 791

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

