## 6140 - Curriculum

The Killingly Public Schools are committed to a comprehensive process of curriculum planning and assessment to foster continuous improvement of student performance as measured by the highest local, regional, and national standards of excellence. Curriculum includes the scope and sequence of content, concepts, and skills taught in a particular discipline; textbooks and other core materials; identified measurable standards and benchmarks; and the methods of assessing student performance of learning outcomes.

The Board of Education is responsible for establishing the educational goals for the Killingly Public Schools; for adopting measurable student learning outcomes for each curriculum; for determining the assessments by which progress toward these goals will be measured; for approving all curricula and textbooks; and for approving all course additions or deletions. In accordance with Connecticut General Statute 10-220, this is a collaborative process, involving input from teachers, administrators, parents, community members, and students, as appropriate.

The Board of Education works with the administration in an ongoing cycle of review, revision, implementation, and evaluation of curriculum. The Board directs the Superintendent to develop and implement regulations that describe a process for educators to review, revise, develop, implement and evaluate curriculum and report to the Board on the status of each curriculum on a five-year cycle.

A sound curriculum review and design process promotes effective teaching and learning. The following principles shall guide curriculum review and revisions:

*  An administrative liaison shall be assigned to each curriculum area and shall provide leadership in the curriculum development process for the assigned curriculum area.

*  A curriculum committee made up of representatives from each of the buildings shall be formed for each subject area and shall be charged with the review and revision of the curriculum on a continuing basis.

*  Connecticut State Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks, national standards, sound research findings, best accepted educational practices, and post-secondary expectations of students shall form the basis of curriculum development, evaluation, and revision.

*  All teachers and administrators shall participate in curriculum development, evaluation, and revision.

*  Curricula shall address the diverse needs of students.

*  Each curriculum shall consist of a set of standards. Each standard shall be more specifically defined by a set of benchmarks. The knowledge and sub-skills that will allow students to meet the benchmarks shall be developed in the form of objectives.

*  A set of essential outcomes, a sub-set of the standards and benchmarks identified for each course, subject or grade, shall be identified.

### Essential Outcomes

A guaranteed and viable curriculum shall be identified in the form of sixteen (16) to twenty (20) essential outcomes for each course, subject and/or grade-level. Skills and concepts identified as guaranteed shall be taught to mastery by each teacher teaching a given course or subject. Essential outcomes shall be assessed using common assessments when appropriate.

### Guidelines for Identifying Essential Outcomes

In order to promote a guaranteed (taught by all teachers who teach a given subject) and viable (doable within the available time) curriculum, a limited number of essential outcomes shall be identified. Sixteen (16) to twenty (20) essential outcomes per year per subject or course have been recommended in recent studies.

The following guidelines must be considered in choosing Essential Outcomes.

1.  Essential outcomes should represent those understandings and processes at the heart of a given discipline. Essential outcomes actively engage students in "doing" the subject so they develop insights into how knowledge is used. Consideration should be given to ways people work within the disciplines - conducting investigations in science; interpreting events and primary source documents in history; applying mathematics to solve real-world problems; researching; critiquing books; debating issues of social and economic policy; and writing for different purposes to real audiences in all subjects.

2.  Essential outcomes should be enduring and transferable understandings and processes having value beyond the classroom. Enduring implies the outcome has lasting value. Essential outcomes go beyond discrete facts or skills that provide limited utility in a single grade. Essential outcomes should be transferable - that is, they are applicable to new situations within or beyond the subject.

3.  Essential outcomes should represent understandings and processes that are necessary for success in the next grade, the next level of instruction, or are applicable to multiple academic disciplines. Readiness for the next level of learning should be considered in identifying essential outcomes. Also, far greater emphasis should be placed on understandings and processes that are interdisciplinary as opposed to those that have limited relevance to other subjects.

4.  When identifying essential outcomes, one must consider difficult to understand or easily misconceived ideas requiring concentrated study. Outcomes should represent understandings and processes that are historically difficult for students to grasp. They should represent understandings that need uncovering through in-depth study or processes that require prolonged practice in order to reach proficiency.

5.  When identifying essential outcomes, one must consider understandings and processes that are emphasized on the Connecticut Mastery Test (CMT) and Connecticut Academic Performance Test (CAPT). Strong consideration must be given to identifying subject matter emphasized by the state tests.

### Use of Curriculum

Once curriculum for any grade or course has been adopted by the Board of Education, the standards and benchmarks shall be used by all people who are responsible for developing and implementing curriculum for the following purposes, among others.

1.  Recommending textbooks to the Board of Education and other instructional materials for the grade or course

2.  Acquainting newly employed district teachers with the standards, benchmarks, and essential outcomes of the grade(s) or courses they will be teaching

3.  Training current district teachers, if necessary, in any revised subject matter content and/or in instructional methods for teaching that content.

4.  Informing parents as to what their children are expected to learn in each grade or course.

5.  Selecting and/or creating assessments to see whether students have mastered the outcomes for a grade or course.

### Assessment

A comprehensive and systematic process for evaluating curricular programs is essential. The results of assessment provide direction for staff development and for curriculum revision and improvement. The Superintendent shall be responsible for assuring that program effectiveness is assessed through a variety of measures. The assessment for each curriculum area shall include common assessments designed by teams of teachers, when appropriate.

Student data gathered as the result of on-going assessment of essential outcomes shall be the primary source for measuring program effectiveness.

(cf. 0210 - Goals/Objectives for Student Accomplishment)

(cf. 1312 - Complaints Concerning School Personnel/Instructional Materials)

(cf. 5145.4 - Nondiscrimination)

(cf. 6000 - Concept and Roles in Instruction)

(cf. 6010 - Goals and Objectives)

(cf. 6141 - Curriculum design and Development)

(cf. 6142 - Subject Fields)

(cf. 6144 - Controversial Issues)

> Legal References: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-15 Towns to maintain schools
>   * 10-15c Discrimination in public schools prohibited.
>   * 10-16b Prescribed courses of study
>   * 10-18 Courses in United States history, government and duties and responsibilities of citizenship.
>   * 10-19 Effect of alcohol, nicotine, or tobacco and drugs to be taught.
>   * 10-220 Duties of boards of education

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

