## 6141.4 - Independent Study

One goal of the Board of Education is the development of self-directed learners. A modern school program should provide students with an opportunity to learn to become sufficiently independent of school and teacher so that students can and will carry on their own learning enterprises successfully after their formal schooling is ended.

Independent study is a plan of instruction that deliberately aims to guide learners in their own independent work. It is a separate phase of instruction tailor-made for the individual student and guided by the teacher in order to build on the student’s abilities as an independent learner. Under independent study, the teacher’s role shifts from a director of learning to a resource for the learner.

Independent study may take any of several patterns:

1.  As a substitute for organized instruction

2.  As honors work

3.  As a culminating activity

4.  As corresponding study

5.  As programmed instruction

6.  As a supplement to group instruction

7.  As individualized instruction

### Objectives

1.  To broaden and strengthen curriculum content thereby overcoming the usual limitations of the regular school program.

2.  To provide students an opportunity to make decisions and to select from a series of options about their activities in school.

3.  To place students in a more active role in the learning process.

4.  To provide learning experiences tailored to the interests, talents, and needs of individual students.

5.  To enable students to develop confidence in their ability to learn, to think imaginatively, and to explore ideas.

6.  To develop in students the ability to comprehend, apply, analyze, and synthesize information.

7.  To provide students an opportunity to develop responsibility through developing and following a plan of study.

8.  To foster in students a continuing interest in learning.

The Superintendent of Schools shall develop rules for the proper administration of independent studies.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

1.  All plans to implement an independent study program must be reviewed and approved by the Building Principal.  Approval must be arranged prior to a student beginning the implementation of an independent study program.

2.  The number of hours required for an independent study program must meet the minimum hours of required classroom instruction set by the State Department of Education if credit is to be awarded to the student for the course.

3.  All independent study programs must be developed and supervised by certificated Killingly staff.  Appropriate certificated staff should be involved in the design of the independent study (i.e., classroom teacher, guidance counselor, etc.). The Building Principal shall designate the staff that will be involved in the individual design of an independent study program.

4.  No independent study may begin any later than two weeks after the beginning of a school semester if course credit is to be awarded.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

