## 6141.11 - Curriculum Research\/Experimental Projects

The Board of Education expects the professional staff to be aware of the latest educational research and to utilize the results as they may be applied to improving the instructional program.

The professional staff is encouraged to seek improvement of the educational program of the schools through carefully designed experimental and research projects.

In the preparation of the annual budget, consideration will be given to allocating funds for creative and\/or innovative projects.  When such funding is available certified staff members may submit proposals to the Superintendent of Schools.

The basic objectives of projects funded shall be:

1. to induce change in the curriculum and techniques under conditions which are conducive to the growth of the educational program;

2. to encourage and coordinate creative efforts so that duplication, conflict, and waste of time may be avoided;

3. to create a climate for professional growth through creativity and innovation;

4. to establish criteria for change in educational practices through innovative development and creativity.


Experimental and\/or research projects may be recommended by staff members or curriculum committees.  Proposals will include costs of implementation, a time line in which to judge the success of the project and plans for evaluation of the program.

Projects must have the approval of the Board unless they represent only a minor departure from previously authorized programs.  Any such programs requiring additional personnel positions, changes in authorized positions, or the transfer of authorized funds must have Board approval.  Approval shall be on a yearly basis, even though the proposal may be for a longer period of time.

After a thorough evaluation, a successful experimental program may be submitted to the Board for consideration as a standard program.

As used here, “research project or experimental program” means any program or project designed to explore or develop new or unproven teaching methods or techniques.  The designation of any program or project as a research project or experimental program shall be made by the Superintendent.

\(cf. [6162.51](/policies/6000/6162-51.md) - Surveys of Students\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * General Education Provisions Act of 1974, Section 439, 1978 Amendments
> * 20 USC 1232h\(a\) Regulation

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

