## 6141.5 - Advanced College Placement

The Board of Education encourages students to advance academically at a pace appropriate for them. Therefore, it shall permit advanced placement in college, either on a full or part-time basis, for high school juniors or seniors who are exceptionally able and motivated academically.

The administration shall develop and the Board of Education shall approve, criteria and regulations pertaining to students who may be accorded advanced placement privileges.

When such individual programs meet with the approval of the school administration, and have been formally approved by the Board, the student may be released from high school attendance on a full or part-time basis, and shall be awarded a high school diploma after evidence is received that s/he has met, through college work, all necessary academic requirements for graduation.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

---

### Advanced Placement (AP)

Students may take Advanced Placement courses that are part of the curriculum as described in the annual Program of Studies.

1.  Students must meet the prerequisites for the Advanced Placement course.

2.  Advanced Placement courses are those proscribed by the College Board and are considered equivalent to college level courses.

3.  Students shall take the Advanced Placement exam given annually in May of the year in which they are enrolled in the course (In special circumstances such as illness, a student may take the exam the following year).

4.  Students are responsible for the cost of each exam. In special circumstances, a student may apply to the principal for financial aid to cover exam fees.

5.  Advanced Placement course grades and scores become part of the student's official transcript.

### Concurrent Enrollment in College Courses

Students may enroll in college courses, at their own expense, while attending Killingly High School. Upon successful completion of the course(s) and payment of tuition and fees, they may earn credit that is applied to the college to which they matriculate. The following are choices for enrollment in college courses while attending Killingly High School:

*  College-approved course that is part of the regular curriculum (UCONN credit): Such a course is taught by a university-approved instructor who is a Killingly High School faculty member.

*  “Running Start” program: This program is part of an articulation agreement with Quinnebaug Valley Community College (QVCC). Eligible students may spend their senior year taking courses at QVCC, and graduate with their regular Killingly High School class. Students select this option at the end of the junior year.

*  Off Site college courses: Students may take courses at any college providing they meet the prerequisites and incur all expenses related to their enrollment.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

