## 6141.3291 - One-to-One iPad/Tablet Program

The Killingly Board of Education recognizes that an effective public education system develops students who are globally aware, civically engaged, and capable of managing their lives and careers. The Board also believes that students need to be proficient users of information, media, and technology in a digital world.

Therefore, the Killingly District will use electronic resources as a powerful and compelling means for students to learn core subjects and applied skills in relevant and rigorous ways. It is the District's goal to provide students with rich and ample opportunities to use technology for important purposes just as individuals in work places and other real-life settings. The District's technology will enable educators and students to communicate, learn, share, collaborate and create, to think and solve problems, to manage their work, and to take ownership of their lives.

To help ensure student safety and citizenship in online activities, all students will be educated about appropriate behavior, including interacting with other individuals on social networking websites and in chat rooms, and cyberbullying awareness and response.

The Board directs the Superintendent or designee to create strong electronic educational systems that support innovative teaching and learning, to provide appropriate staff development opportunities and to develop procedures to support this policy.

To achieve this philosophy, the Board believes the implementation and focus of a 1:1 iPad/Tablet program is to provide the necessary tools and resources for a progressive learning environment characterized by flexibility, collaboration, personalization, creativity, and technology-rich learning. Technology shall be integrated throughout the educational program in a seamless and timeless fashion. The 1:1 iPad/Tablet program will empower students and teachers to use technology like adults do, accessing and using purposeful technology-based tools anytime a task calls for them.

Learning in Killingly District schools must be a continuous, dynamic interaction among students, parents, and the extended community. Implementation of a 1:1 iPad/Tablet initiative enables anywhere, anytime learning that is not limited by the physical confines of a classroom or school building. The Board believes that purposeful technology integration liberates teachers from being deliverers of content, and instead, allows them to be facilitators of deep, individualized learning for all students.

The focus of the 1:1 iPad/Tablet program in the Killingly School District is to provide necessary tools and resources for a progressive learning environment characterized by flexibility, collaboration, personalization, creativity, and technology-rich learning. In District schools technology will be integrated throughout the educational program in a seamless and timely fashion. The 1:1 iPad/Tablet setting empowers students and teachers to use technology like adults do in the real world, accessing and using purposeful technology-based tools anytime a task calls for them.

The Board of Education believes learning is a continuous dynamic interaction among students, educators, parents, and the extended community. Implementation of a 1:1 iPad/Tablet initiative enables anywhere, anytime learning that is no longer limited by the four walls of a classroom or building. Purposeful technology integration liberates teachers from being deliverers of content and, instead, allows them to be facilitators of deep, individualized learning for all students.

The policy, procedures, and information within this document apply to all District-owned iPad/Tablets used in District schools, including any other device considered by the administration to come under this policy. Individuals or teams of teachers may set additional requirements for use in their classroom.

\(cf. [5131.81](/policies/5000/5131-81.md) - Use of Electronic Devices\)

\(cf. [5131.911](/policies/5000/5131-911.md) - Bullying\)

\(cf. 5131.913 - Cyberbullying\)

\(cf. [6141.321](/policies/6000/6141-321.md) - Acceptable Computer Use Policy\)

\(cf. 6141.323 - Filtering Access to Electronic Networks\)

\(cf. 6141.324 - Posting of Student work/Photographs\)

\(cf. 6141.325 - Blogging/Podcasting\)

\(cf. 6141.326 - Online Social Networking\)

\(cf. 6141.327 - Electronic Resources\)

\(cf. 6141.328 - Bring Your Own Device\)

\(cf. 6141.329 - Electronic Reading \(e-reader\) Devices\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules
> 
> * 18 U.S.C. §§ 2510-2522, Electronic Communication Privacy Act
> * P.L. No 110-385, Protecting Children in the 21st Century Act

**Policy adopted:  June 25, 2014**

---

### Agreement for Use of Killingly District Student iPad/Tablet

* The iPad/Tablet you will be issued is the property of the Killingly School District and is made available to you as a tool for learning.

* This Agreement sets out the iPad/Tablet usage standards for using the device.

* Like textbooks and other school property, an iPad/Tablet is assigned to the student and MUST be returned to the District at the end of the school year or upon withdrawal or transfer.

* This agreement, signed by both student and parent/guardian, is required before an iPad/Tablet will be issued to a student.

* The use of an iPad/Tablet is a privilege that can be revoked. Inappropriate use or neglect of an iPad/Tablet can result in limits to or loss of use of the iPad/Tablet. Consequences for inappropriate use will vary according to infraction, but may include any or all of the following:

  * School discipline code consequences for minor infractions

  * Loss of privileges or increased daytime controls

  * Loss of iPad/Tablet for a period of time



**Violations are subject to applicable district policies pertaining to discipline.**

* All use standards for the school network under Policy and Procedures \#6141.321, "Computer Acceptable Use" shall apply to use of the iPad/Tablet.

* Students will bring the iPad/Tablet to school each day unless otherwise instructed with a full battery charge.

* Students are encouraged to sync to back up their data and applications.

* Students are not permitted to change or otherwise "jailbreak" the device to alter the configuration or functionality that has been established by the District.

* Students must not leave the iPad/Tablet unattended at any time while at school. If a student needs to store his/her iPad/Tablet during the school day, he/she must follow all school procedures for securing unattended iPad/Tablet when necessary \(athletic events, etc.\). For loss or theft, please refer to the insurance policy. The cost of a loss/theft of an iPad/Tablet due to negligence of the student will be charged to the parent/student and recovered as authorized under Policy and Procedures 3520 \(Student Fees, Fines, Charges\).

* All the iPad/Tablet software that students will need for classes will be made available by the District. Students are not allowed to uninstall or modify any application or the operating system in any way. Installation of apps by students is permitted with the expectation that these devices are primarily for educational purposes rather than entertainment and/or amusement. The District reserves the right to remove or disable any student-installed apps and data which they it determines in its sole discretion to be inappropriate or that interferes with the learning process. All downloading of applications or other on-line costs incurred by the student for authorized or unauthorized personal use of the iPad/Tablet is the sole responsibility of the parents/students.

* File-sharing, including downloading music or any other activity that violates copyright laws is not permitted. Any music or other commercial files installed on the iPad/Tablet must be legally owned by the student user.

* Student iPads are subject to random inspections at the discretion of the District and School Administration and one-to-one iPad coordinator.


### General Handling and Required Care of the iPad/Tablet

* Student and parent/guardian will be charged for any damage resulting from intentional abuse mishandling, or loss or damage to an iPad/Tablet due to negligence per insurance policy.  A fee of $50 will be assessed to each user who has an incidence of a broken/cracked/damaged screen.  A police report is required for any stolen iPad/Tablet.  The following are not considered to be accidental damage and repair costs will be assessed.

* Excessive scratches/wear to iPad/Tablet exterior caused by failure to regularly use a protective case.

* Intentional marking, defacing, and/or abusing the iPad/Tablet for student amusement, anger, frustration, etc.

* Damage caused by tampering with hardware components or operating systems \(i.e. jailbreaking\) to alter district configuration.

* Broken/cracked/damaged screen.

* Any loss or theft of an iPad/Tablet must be reported to the technology support office immediately, so that recovery efforts can be initiated.  Failure to immediately report a lost iPad/Tablet can result in the student being assessed the full replacement cost of $400.

* Do not mark the iPad/Tablet in any way with markers, stickers, scratches, engraving, etc. Each Apple iPad/Tablet is labeled with a district identification barcode.  Do not remove this sticker.

* The iPad/Tablet must remain in a case at all times. Any damage resulting from failure to use a case will result in fees being assessed for the full cost of repairs. If you wish to purchase your own case, the case must provide adequate protection for the edges, corners and surface of the iPad/Tablet.

* Do not insert foreign objects \(paperclips, pens, etc.\) into the ports \(openings\) of the iPad/Tablet.

* Do not eat or drink near the iPad/Tablet. There should never be any food or drink around the iPad/Tablet.

* Protect your iPad/Tablet from other sources of moisture such as rain when outdoors and bathrooms or kitchens near toilets or sinks.

* Make sure hands are clean before using the iPad/Tablet - the glass screen should be regularly wiped clean with a dry clean soft cloth - a microfiber cloth is recommended, but any soft cotton fabric will work.  Do NOT use commercial liquid or spray cleaners on the iPad/Tablet screen.  Do NOT use paper towels to clean the screen.

* When the charging cable needs to be connected, be sure to line it up correctly when inserting and removing. Students are responsible for damage to the charger port or connector pin resulting from mishandling. Use only the school-approved charger assigned with the iPad/Tablet.

* If you have problems with your iPad/Tablet, stop using the device and ask your Tech Support Office for help.


### Internet Rules and Expectations

* Killingly School District's Acceptable Use Agreement must be followed at all times.

* Any inappropriate web or email activity can result in loss of the iPad/Tablet privilege. The use of unapproved proxy servers is strictly forbidden and is a violation of the District's network policy.

* If you unintentionally link to an inappropriate website, report it to your teacher immediately so District officials can remove access to the site.

* All activity conducted on the District/School Internet/Network is monitored and can be tracked/traced. All use of the Internet/Network should be to further the student's education and enrich the student's educational resources.


### Parent Information

* The iPad/Tablet is meant for student use. It is not meant to be a family computer or to be used by siblings in any way.  It is understood that parents will want to familiarize themselves with the operation of the ipad in order to support their child's use of the technology.  It should also be understood that the student will be held accountable for all content that is accessed through the district-owned ipad and that discipline could result based on the guidelines in the Parent-Student Handbook.

* Parents are responsible for supervising student Internet use while at home; the filtering services we implement on the District network do not transfer to home use. More restrictive settings can be installed upon parent request to limit access to the Internet or other nonacademic uses of the iPad/Tablet. The District will be providing specific information on how to request this service.

* Parents should monitor the use of the iPad/Tablet at home to ensure that its primary function is academic and that students are completing assigned school work rather than excessive gaming, chatting, etc.

* Use of Internet resources, including online curriculum content purchased by the District, will be an integral part of the learning activities in your child's classes. If you have reservations or objections about your child having access to the Internet while at school, please contact your school administration to discuss the matter.

* All families must participate in an iPad/Tablet self-insurance program to provide limited protection in the event of negligent loss or damage to the iPad/Tablet, prior to receiving his/her iPad. This is a District self-insured program managed by the District. Arrangements can be made through the building Administrators for families that require financial assistance for the insurance.

* The optional insurance program \(self-insured, managed by the District\) has the following features:

  * Covered loses - We will cover direct physical loss caused by accidental damage, unavoidable theft or loss, fire, flood, natural disasters, manufacturer defects, or power surge due to lightning; occurring during the school year except for cracked/broken/damaged screens, which will cost the user/parent $50 per incident. There is a $50.00 deductible for unavoidable theft or loss \(see below\).

  * Coverage includes burglary/robbery/theft that involves a break-in, force, or other total loss \(including when the device can no longer be found\) that is otherwise unavoidable despite exercising due diligence \($50 deductible assessed\).

  * Leaving the iPad/Tablet unattended, failing to secure it per school recommendations, leaving it in an unlocked car, leaving it on the bus, etc. do NOT qualify as a legitimate claim for unavoidable theft or loss. These and similar situations will result in the replacement cost at fair market value \(approx. $400\) to be assessed.

  * Accidental damage includes damage resulting purely by accident despite following all guidelines for care and handling of the iPad/Tablet. The following are not considered to be accidental damage and are not covered:

    * excessive scratches/wear to iPad/Tablet exterior caused by failure to regularly use a protective case \(use of case is required per the iPad/Tablet Agreement\)

    * Intentionally marking, defacing, and/or abusing the iPad/Tablet \(amusement, anger, frustration, etc.\)

    * Damage caused by tampering with hardware components or operating system \(i.e. jailbreaking\) to alter district configurations

    * Broken/cracked/damaged screen.



* Your Duties in the event of loss or damage:

  * Report the loss or damage to your building administrator and 1-to-1 coordinator as soon as possible.

  * Notify the local police immediately if the loss is due to theft or fire.

  * Multiple damage/theft claims, especially if lack of due diligence is evident, could result in an escalation of deductible fees, assessment of full repair cost, or restriction of take-home privileges.



**Regulation approved:  June 25, 2014**

### STUDENT/PARENT iPAD USAGE AGREEMENT

```
Student Name  ______________________________________________          _____________________

                         Last Name                                First Name                                    Student ID #

Parent Name  _______________________________________________          _____________________

                       Last Name                                  First Name                                    Driver's License #

Parent Email Address _________________________________________________________________

Address _____________________________________________________________________________

Home Phone __________________________     Work Phone ______________________

______________________________________________________________________________________________
```

In this agreement, "we", "us", and "our" means the District. "You" and "your" means the parent/guardian and student enrolled in Killingly Public Schools.

The "property" is a iPad owned by Killingly Public Schools with the following serial / asset tag numbers:

```
Place Serial Number/Asset Number Here




______________________________________________________________________________________________
```

Terms:  You will pay a nonrefundable annual use and maintenance fee of $55 on or before taking possession of the property. Once possession of the iPad has been taken refunds are not allowed.

I have attended the KPS Parent Orientation Meeting, or alternative as approved by the administration.

You will comply at all times with the Killingly Public School District's Parent/Student Technology Handbook and Acceptable Use Policy, incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof for all purposes. Any failure to comply may terminate your rights of possession effective immediately and the District may repossess the property.

Title:  Legal title to the property is in the District and shall at all times remain in the District. Your right of possession and use is limited to and conditioned upon your full and complete compliance with this Agreement and the Parent/Student Technology Handbook.

Loss or Damage:  If the property is damaged, lost or stolen, you are responsible for the reasonable cost of repair or its fair market value on the date of loss. Loss or theft of the property must be reported to the District by the next school day after the occurrence.

Seniors must clear all records and pay all fees before participating in graduation ceremonies.

Repossession:  If you do not timely and fully comply with all terms of this Agreement and the Parent/Student Technology Handbook, including the timely return of the iPad and associated materials, the District shall be entitled to come to your place of residence, or other location, to take possession of the property.

Term of Agreement: Your right to use and possession of the iPad terminates not later than the last day of the school year unless earliest terminated by the District or upon withdrawal from the District.

Appropriation:  Your failure to timely return the property and the continued use of it for non-school purposes without the District's consent may be considered unlawful appropriation of the District's property.

```
______________________________________________________________________________________________

Signatures:

______________________________     ______________________________     ____________________

Parent or Guardian Signature                      Student Signature                                       Date

                                                                                                       For Office Use Only: 
Payment Plan Options: 

____________ Option A (Full $55)                                        Cash Amount:   _________________
____________ Option B (2 Payments of $27.50; 1/Semester)Check Amount: _________________
                                                                                               Check Number: _________________
```

