## 6141.321 - Technology and Instruction

### Electronic Information Resources (Internet)

The Killingly Board of Education strongly believes in the educational value of electronic services and recognizes its potential to support curriculum and student learning by facilitating resource sharing, innovation, and communication. The Killingly Public Schools will make every effort to protect students and teachers from any misuses or abuses as a result of their experiences with the Internet and its information services.

The Board of Education believes this educational opportunity also demands personal responsibility and an understanding of the acceptable use policy for the Internet by students; parents and staff. Failure to follow acceptable use rules will result in the loss of on-line privileges and appropriate school disciplinary measures.

It must be recognized that while the Killingly Public Schools have established an acceptable use policy, there may be unacceptable material or communications that students can access do to the inability to control materials available on other computer systems. The Killingly Board of Education does not condone the use of such materials.

### Internet Safety 

Each district computer with Internet access shall have a filtering device that blocks entry to visual depictions that are obscene, pornographic or harmful or inappropriate for students, as defined by the Superintendent or his/her designee.  The Superintendent or his/her designee shall enforce the use of such filtering devices.  An administrator, supervisor, or other authorized person may disable the filtering device for bona fide research or other lawful purpose, provided the person receives prior permission from the Superintendent of his/her designee.

The Superintendent shall develop and promulgate an acceptable use policy pertaining to the Internet. 

In addition, the District recognizes its responsibility to educate students regarding appropriate behavior on social networking and chat room sites about cyberbullying. Therefore, students shall be provided instruction about appropriate online behavior, including interacting with other individuals on social networking sites and in chat rooms and cyberbullying awareness and response.  

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes 
>   * 1-19(b)(11) Access to public records. Exempt records. 
>   * 10-15b Access of parent or guardians to student's records. 
>   * 10-209 Records not to be public. 
>   * 11-8a Retention, destruction and transfer of documents 
>   * 11-8b Transfer or disposal of public records.  State Library Board to adopt regulations. 
>   * 46b-56 (e) Access to Records of Minors. 
> * Connecticut Public Records Administration Schedule V - Disposition of Education Records (Revised 1983). 
> * Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (section 438 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended, added by section 513 of PL 93-568, codified at 20 U.S.C. 1232g.). 
> * Dept. of Education. 34 CFR. Part 99 (May 9, 1980 45 FR 30802) regs. implementing FERPA enacted as part of 438 of General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g)-parent and student privacy and other rights with respect to educational records, as amended 11/21/96. 
> * Children's Internet Protection Act of 2000 (HR 4577, P.L.106-554) 
> * Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 254[h],[I])  
> * Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 6801 et seq., Part F) 
> * Public Law 94-553, The Copyright Act of 1976, 17 U.S.C. 101 et. seq. 
> * Reno v. ACLU, 521 U.S. 844 (1997) 
> * Ginsberg v. New York, 390 U.S. 629, at 642, n.10 (1968) 
> * Board of Education v. Pico, 457 U.S. 868 (1988) 
> * Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier, 484 U.S. 620, 267 (1988) 

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

**Policy Revised:  June 6, 2012**

---

### Rights, Responsibilities and Duties

### Acceptable Computer Network Use - Administrative Regulations

The intent of these administrative regulations is to provide employees with general requirements for utilizing the Killingly Public Schools computers, networks and Internet services. The administrative regulations may be supplemented by more specific administrative procedures and rules governing day-to-day management and operation of the computer system.

These rules provide general guidelines and examples of prohibited uses for illustrative purposes but do not attempt to state all required or prohibited activities by users. Employees who have questions regarding whether a particular activity or use is acceptable should seek further guidance from the IT Coordinator.

Failure to comply with Board Policy, these regulations and/or other established procedures or rules governing computer use may result in disciplinary action, up to and including discharge. Illegal uses of the district's computers will also result in referral to law enforcement authorities.

A.  Access to School Computers, Networks and Internet Services

  The level of access that employees have to school unit computers, networks and Internet services is based upon specific employee job requirements and needs.

B.  Acceptable Use

  Employees are to utilize the school unit's computers, networks and Internet services for school-related purposes and performance of job duties. Incidental personal use of school computers is permitted as long as such use does not interfere with the employee's job duties and performance, with system operations, or other system users. "Incidental personal use" is defined as use by an individual employee for occasional personal communications. Employees are reminded that such personal use must comply with this policy and all other applicable policies, procedures and rules.

C.  Prohibited Use

  The employee is responsible for his/her actions and activities involving school computers, networks and Internet services and for his/her computer files, passwords and accounts. General examples of unacceptable uses which are expressly prohibited include but are not limited to the following:

  1.  Any use that is illegal or in violation of other Board policies, including harassing, discriminatory or threatening communications and behavior, violations of copyright laws, etc.;

  2.  Any use involving materials that are obscene, pornographic, sexually explicit or sexually suggestive;

  3.  Any inappropriate communications with students or minors;

  4.  Any use for private financial gain, or commercial, advertising or solicitation purposes;

  5.  Any use as a forum for communicating by e-mail or any other medium with other school users or outside parties to solicit, proselytize, advocate or communicate the views of an individual or non-school-sponsored organization; to solicit membership in or support of any non-school-sponsored organization; or to raise funds for any non-school-sponsored purpose, whether for-profit or not-for-profit. No employee shall knowingly provide school e-mail addresses to outside parties whose intent is to communicate with school employees, students and/or their families for non-school purposes. Employees who are uncertain as to whether particular activities are acceptable should seek further guidance from the building principal or IT Coordinator;

  6.  Any communication that represents personal views as those of Killingly Public Schools or that could be misinterpreted as such;

  7.  Downloading and/or installing software or applications without permission from the IT Coordinator (any software or application must meet the guidelines of those policies that define acceptability);

  8.  Providing and/or installing any software applications licensed exclusively to Killingly Public Schools for home use unless the applications are supplied by the ITC Department for this purpose;

  9.  Connecting any computer, laptop, or peripheral device (including PDAs) to the district's network without the knowledge of and permission from the IT Coordinator (any network device must comply with compatibility and safety standards);

  10.  Opening or forwarding any e-mail attachments (executable files) from unknown sources that may contain viruses, forwarding email messages regarded as "spam", or forwarding a mail message the sender has clearly marked "Do Not Forward";

  11.  Any malicious use or disruption of district computers, networks and Internet services or breach of security features, including intentional or unintentional introduction of viruses through infected devices or files;

  12.  Any misuse or damage to the district's computer equipment;

  13.  Misuse of the computer passwords or accounts (employee or other users);

  14.  Leaving any computer logged on to the network unattended;

  15.  Any communications that are in violation of generally accepted rules of network etiquette and/or professional conduct;

  16.  Failing to report a known breach of computer security to the system administrator;

  17.  Using school computers, networks and Internet services after such access has been denied or revoked; and

  18.  Any attempt to delete, erase or otherwise conceal any information stored on a school computer that violates these rules.

D.  No Expectation of Privacy

  Killingly Public Schools retains control, custody and supervision of all computers, networks and Internet services owned or leased by the district. The district reserves the right to monitor all computer and Internet activity by employees and other system users. Employees have no expectation of privacy in their use of school computers, including e-mail messages and stored files. The district reserves the right to bypass individual user passwords at any time to access information in an employee's absence and/or to monitor the use of such systems by employees.

E.  Electronic Mail

  Killingly Public Schools retains the right to review, store and disclose all information sent over the district's electronic mail system for any legally permissible reason, including but not limited to determining whether the information is a public record, whether it contains information discoverable in litigation and to access district information in the employee's absence. Employees should be aware that e-mail sent or received by the Board, the district or the district's employees may be considered a public record subject to public disclosure or inspection. Employees should also be aware that e-mail messages may be retrieved even if they have been deleted, and that statements made in e-mail communication can form the basis of various legal claims against the individual author or the district.

F.  Confidentiality of Information

  Employees are expected to use appropriate judgment and caution in communications concerning students and staff to ensure that personally identifiable information remains confidential.

G.  Staff Responsibilities to Students

  Teachers, staff members, and volunteers who utilize school computers for instructional purposes with students have a duty of care to supervise such use. Teachers, staff members and volunteers are expected to be familiar with the district's policies and rules concerning student computer and Internet use and to enforce them. When, in the course of their duties, employee volunteers become aware of student violations, they are expected to stop the activity and inform the building principal [or other appropriate administrator].

H.  Compliance with Related Policies

  Employees are expected to read and comply with any additional policies that relate to the use of the district's computers and network, including but not limited to the policies and regulations specific to hardware and software.

I.  Compensation for Losses, Costs and/or Damages

  The employee shall be responsible for any losses, costs or damages incurred by the school unit related to violations of Policy and/or these regulations.

J.  District Assumes No Responsibility for Unauthorized Charges, Costs or Illegal Use

  Killingly Public Schools assumes no responsibility for any unauthorized charges made by employees including but not limited to credit card charges, subscriptions, long distance telephone charges, equipment and line costs, or for any illegal use of its computers such as copyright violations.

K.  Employee Acknowledgment Required

  Each employee authorized to access the school unit's computers, networks and Internet services is to sign an acknowledgment form stating that they have received and read associated Policies and their regulations (Appendix A). The acknowledgment form will be retained in the employee's personnel file.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 53a-182b Harassment in the first degree.
> * The Freedom of Information Act
> * PA 98-142 An Act Requiring Notice to Employees of Electronic Monitoring by Employers

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

