## 6142.101 - Nutrition and Physical Activity (Student Wellness)

It is the intent of the Killingly School District to make a significant contribution to the general well being, mental and physical capacity and learning ability of each student while affording them the opportunity to fully participate in the educational process.  The Board of Education promotes healthy students by supporting wellness, good nutrition and regular physical activity as a part of the learning environment.  The District supports a healthy environment where children learn and participate in positive dietary and lifestyle practices. By facilitating learning through the support and promotion of good nutrition and physical activity, Killingly Schools contribute to the basic health status of children.

Children need opportunities to be physically active and have access to healthful foods in order to grow, learn, and thrive. Physical activity needs to be balanced with good nutrition in order to create a healthy learning environment.  Physical activity has substantial health benefits for students including favorable effects on body weight, blood pressure, endurance capacity and physical strength to promote healthy lifelong learning.  Physical activity has been shown to promote good academic outcomes and to reduce the barriers to learning.  Good health fosters student attendance and education and helps to increase a student's capacity for learning.

To accomplish these goals:

*  All students will be afforded healthy nutrition choices.

*  Food service programs will comply with federal, state and local requirements.

*  All food and beverages made available during the instructional day will be consistent with the current Dietary Guidelines for Americans and adhere to food safety and security guidelines.

*  Sequential and interdisciplinary nutrition education will be provided and promoted.

*  Efforts will be made to educate parents about good nutrition and the benefits of physical activity.

*  Physical education classes and/or physical activity opportunities will be available for all students at all levels.

*  The Nutrition and Physical Activity practices will annually be evaluated by a Student Wellness Advisory Committee.

### Student Wellness Advisory Committee

The Board authorizes the establishment of a Student Wellness Advisory Committee to review school district practices on nutrition and physical activity.  The Student Wellness Advisory Committee will be involved in evaluating the effectiveness of the wellness policy.

**Policy Adopted:   June 7, 2006**

---

### Nutrition and Physical Activity (Student Wellness)

To ensure the health and well being of all students, it is the policy of the Board of Education to:

1.  Ensure that all students have access to adequate and healthy food choices at all times during the school day.

2.  Promote proper dietary habits and a healthy lifestyle for students by implementing nutritionally sound school food and nutrition programs.   Staff is encouraged to focus on the federal "Dietary Guidelines for Americans."

3.  Support the integrity of the school meals program by limiting food sales/parties for students held during school hours which are in direct conflict with the lunch and breakfast programs.

4.  Ensure that students in grades pre-K-12 receive nutrition education that is interactive and teaches the skills they need to adopt healthy eating behaviors.

5.  Encourage staff to model healthy habits as a valuable part of student education.

6.  Educate students & parents by including nutrition-related statements on weekly menus & providing healthy nutrition statements in cafeterias throughout the school system.

7.  Involve family members and community in supporting and reinforcing nutrition education and the promotion of healthy lifestyles through school to home communications about healthy food choices particularly as related to school parties and celebrations.

8.  Offer nutrition education to the District's cafeteria staff.

9.  Offer regular opportunities for physical activity at all levels.

10.  Offer a physical education curriculum that is highly engaging and promotes the individual fitness of each student.  

11.  Regularly evaluate the effectiveness of this policy in promoting healthy eating and recommend changes as appropriate to increase its effectiveness.

### Nutrition Guidelines

The District strongly encourages the sale or distribution of nutrient dense foods for all school functions and activities.  Nutrient dense foods are those foods that provide students with calories rich in the nutrient content needed to be healthy.  Complete Nutritional Standards are available through Killingly Public Schools Food Service.

The Killingly Public School District shall use the following implementation guidelines:

### Hot Lunch/Breakfast Programs

1.  The full meal program will follow the U.S. Government's Nutrition Standards.

2.  Food and beverages sold or served in schools shall include nutritious, low-fat foods and drinks which may include, but shall not be limited to, low-fat dairy products, natural fruit juices and fresh or dried fruit at all times when food or drink is available for purchase by students during the school day.  ("Food and drinks available for purchase" include foods sold in vending machines, school stores, fundraisers and any other food sales during the school day.)

3.  The Hot Lunch/Breakfast Provider will be expected to make every effort to follow the District Nutrition Standards when determining the items in a la carte sales.

  * A la carte items that do not meet the District Nutrition Standards may be acceptable for student consumption within moderation (i.e., limit quantity sold to an individual student).

  * A la carte items that do not meet the District Nutrition Standards may be acceptable when offered on an intermittent basis.

  Other Foods Offered or Sold

4.  Foods offered in classrooms or school-sponsored activities and food and beverages sold as part of approved school fund-raising events during the school day shall be nutritious foods as determined by the District's Nutrition Standards and in conformity with state statute.

5.  Foods and drinks available for purchase, including foods sold in vending machines, school stores, fundraisers and any other food sales during the school day shall be nutritious foods as determined by the District's Nutrition Standards.

6.  Soda (diet or regular) will not be available to students for purchase during the instructional day.

7.  All fundraising projects that take place during the school day must follow the District Nutrition Standards and emphasize the sale of non-food items.

  Teacher-to-Student Incentive

8.  Strong consideration should be given to nonfood items as part of any teacher-to-student incentive program. Should teachers feel compelled to utilize food items as an incentive, they are encouraged to adhere to the District Nutritional Standards as stated under Guidelines for food and beverages offered to students at school.

  Student Nutrition Education

9. The District shall develop and implement a comprehensive, developmentally appropriate, curriculum approach to nutrition in all grades.  Instructional staff is encouraged to integrate nutritional themes into daily lessons when appropriate.

  Parent Nutrition Education

10.  Nutrition education will be provided to parents beginning at the elementary level.  The goal will be to continue to educate parents throughout the middle and high school levels.

11.  Nutrition education may be provided in the form of handouts, memos to parents, postings on the district website or presentations that focus on nutritional value and healthy lifestyles.

  Specific Food Guidelines:

12.  As required by Connecticut law, low-fat milk, 100% fruit juice, water, low-fat dairy products, such as, but not limited to low-fat yogurt and low-fat cheese shall be available for purchase by students during mealtimes during the regular school day.

13.  Any given food item for sale prior to the start of the school day and throughout the instructional day will have no more than 30% of its total calories derived from fat or no more than 7 grams of fat per serving.

14.  Any given food item for sale prior to the start of the school day and throughout the instructional day will have no more than 10% of its total calories derived from saturated fat.

15.  Nuts and seeds are exempt from these standards because they are nutrient dense and contain high levels of monounsaturated fat.  Foods high in monounsaturated fat help lower "bad" LDL cholesterol and maintain "good" HDL cholesterol.

  Beverages:

16.  Milk, water and 100% fruit juices may be sold on school grounds both prior to and throughout the instructional day.

  Candy:

17.  Vending sales of candy will not be permitted in student areas.  Candy is defined as any item that has sugar (including brown sugar, corn sweetener, corn syrup, fructose, glucose {dextrose}, high-fructose corn syrup, honey, invert sugar, lactose, maltose, molasses, raw sugar, table sugar {sucrose}, syrup) listed as one of the first two ingredients.

18.  It is recognized that there may be rare special occasions when the school principal may allow a school group to deviate from these guidelines.

  Guidelines for Food and Beverages Offered to Students at School

  The District encourages the use of nutrient dense foods for all school functions and activities. Nutrient dense foods are those foods that provide students with calories rich in the nutrient content needed to be healthy. At any school function (parties, celebrations, feasts, sporting events, etc.) healthy food choice options must be available. Some suggested foods are listed below:

  * Raw/fresh vegetable sticks (e.g. carrots)/slices with low-fat dressing or yogurt dip

  * Fresh fruit and 100% fruit juices

  * Fresh vegetables

  * Frozen fruit juice pops

  * Vegetable juice (at least 50% full strength) and bottled water

  * Dried fruits (raisins, banana chips, etc.)

  * Trail mix (dried fruits and nuts)

  * Dry roasted peanuts, tree nuts and soy nuts (not coconut or palm nuts)

  * Low-fat meats and cheese sandwiches (use low-fat mayonnaise or Canola mayonnaise in chicken/tuna salads)

  * Party mix (variety of cereals, nuts, pretzels, etc.)

  * Low-sodium crackers

  * Baked corn chips & potato chips containing no hydrogenated oils with salsa and low-fat dips (Ranch, French Onion, Bean, etc.)

  * Clif bars, Lunar bars, Green+ bar, granola bars with no artificial ingredients, low-fat crackers  and cookies such as fig bars and ginger snaps

  * Low-fat/non-fat fruit yogurt

  * Mixed nuts

  * Low-fat and skim milk products

  * Pure ice cold water

  * Pretzels

  * Bread products as such as bread sticks, rolls, bagels and pita bread with no hydrogenated oils

  * Ready-to-eat low sugar granola cereals

  * Rice cakes with almond or peanut butter

  * Toasted almonds, and raisins

  * Low-fat (1 percent) and skim milk

  Fundraising Activities and Concessions

  Any fundraising requires administrative approval.  To create a school environment that supports the promotion of healthy food and beverage choices for children, it is important to consider all venues where food and beverages are consumed or sold.  The following recommendations are made to promote healthy choices for children related to fund-raising activities supported by the school:

19.  Offer non-food items as the items that raise funds such as books, gift wrap, candles, plants, flowers, school promotional items, etc.

20.  Whenever food and beverages are sold that raise funds for the school include at least some healthy food choices.

### Learning Incentives

The use of foods of minimal nutritional value as learning incentives should be eliminated and healthy food choices or non-food items should be substituted.

### Foods of Minimal Nutritional Value as Defined by USDA

"Competitive foods" are those foods or beverages sold in competition with the District's food service program.  The sale of competitive foods is restricted as follows:

1.  Competitive foods in the following list are considered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to be of minimal nutritional value:

  * all confections

  * potato chips

  * carbonated beverages

  * fruit drinks containing less than 50% pure fruit juice

  * tea or coffee

2.  The above shall not be sold during instructional hours.

3.  Nutritionally-rich competitive foods may be sold during meal periods.

### Physical Activity Guidelines

The Killingly Public School District shall use the following implementation guidelines:

1.  Due to conclusive research, every effort should be made to have recess prior to lunch.

2.  Daily recess will be a minimum of 20 minutes, preferably outdoors, for grades 1-4 and 15 minutes daily for Kindergarten.

3.  As recommended by the National Association for Sport and Physical Education (NASPE), school leaders of physical activity and physical education shall guide students through a process that will enable them to achieve and maintain a high level of physical fitness through the following:

  * Exposure to a wide variety of engaging physical activity;

  * Teaching of physical skills to help maintain a lifetime of health and fitness;

  * Establishing individual fitness goals and processes for monitoring progress.

  * Individualize intensity of activities;

  * Being active role models.

4.  Introduce developmentally appropriate components of a health-related fitness assessment to the students at an early age to prepare them for future assessment.

5.  Physical education classes shall be sequential, building from year to year; content will include movement, personal fitness, and personal and social responsibility.  Students should be able to demonstrate competency through application of knowledge, skill and practice.

6.  Beginning in middle school and through high school, administer a health-related fitness assessment with students. Students shall receive results and use this as a baseline in understanding their own level of fitness, creating goals, and plans, and logging activities identified to achieve goals. Logs should include day, time, type and length of activity, whether the activity was done alone or with others, and how the student felt before and after the activity.

### Student Wellness Advisory Committee (Child Nutrition and Physical Activity Advisory Council)

A Student Wellness Advisory Committee shall review school district practices on nutrition and physical activity. 

*  The membership of the committee may include the district's food services coordinator/manager, parent representatives from each school (or school level), staff member representatives from each school (or school level), administrative representatives, physical education and health education teacher representatives, district medical advisor and Board of Education members.

*  The committee shall meet a minimum of twice yearly to review implementation of the policy.

*  The Principal of each school, or his/her designee, shall be responsible for ensuring that each school meets the requirements of the district wellness policy.

(cf. 3542 - Food Service)

(cf. 3542.33 - Food Sales Other Than National School Lunch Program)

(cf. 3542.34 - Nutrition Program)

(cf. 3452.45 - Vending Machines)

(cf. 6142.6 - Physical Education)

(cf. 6142.61 - Physical Activity)

(cf. 6142.62 - Recess/Unstructured Time)

(cf. 6142.10 - Health Education)

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-16b Prescribed courses of study.
>   * 10-215 Lunches, breakfasts and the feeding programs for public school children and employees.
>   * 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules, policies and procedures.
>   * 10-215a Non-public school participation in feeding program.
>   * 10-215b Duties of state board of education re: feeding programs.
>   * 10-216 Payment of expenses.
>   * 10-215b-1 State board of education regulation. Competitive foods
> * PA 04-224 An Act Concerning Childhood Nutrition in Schools, Recess, and Lunch Breaks
> * National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program; Competitive Foods. (7 CFR Parts 210 and 220, Federal Register, Vol. 45, No. 20, Tuesday, January 29, 1980, pp. 6758-6772)
> * The Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, Public Law 108-265

**Regulation approved:  June 7, 2006**

