## 6142.2 - Reading/Language Arts

Reading and language skills are integral parts of all phases of the learning process. Each individual, therefore must learn to speak, read, write, and listen to words in order to function effectively in school and society. Since it is primarily with words that ideas and thoughts are communicated, it is imperative that the individuals develop competency in the reading and language arts areas for self-fulfillment, effective communication, creative expression, and to assume a productive role in society. Each individual must be provided with an educational program at his or her level of ability and achievement. Such a program will emphasize the differentiation of instruction, flexible grouping, and a multi-modality approach.

Recognizing the importance of establishing the appropriate foundation during the primary grades and its statutory requirements, the Board of Education, by September 1, 1999 will develop and implement a three year plan to improve the reading skills of students in grades K through 3 inclusive. The goal of such plan is to have all students attain the state’s reading competency standard.

### K-3: Literacy Development

The Superintendent is directed by the Board of Education to develop a plan whose goal is to have all students attain the district's reading and writing competency standards. The Superintendent is directed to include in the programs:

Reading:

1.  Specific instructional methods, strategies and activities that will be used to teach reading;

2.  Ways to assess and help students in danger of not learning to read by the end of first grade;

3.  Periodic evaluations of students' reading levels;

4.  Time for instructing students who do not progress or who read below grade level;

5.  In-service training for elementary school teachers in how to teach reading;

6.  Ways to involve parents in addressing their children's reading development;

7.  Ongoing data collection and monitoring of program effectiveness;

8.  A school and public library partnership to improve pre-reading and reading skills; and

Writing:

1.  Engage in the writing process (including brainstorming topics/ideas, drafting, conferencing with peers and adults, revising, drafting and preparing a piece for publication or celebration);

2.  Write to prompts or topics under timed conditions;

3.  Write for a variety of purposes and audiences;

4.  Apply developmentally appropriate conventions of the language to final drafts;

5.  Spell developmentally appropriate words based on use, content and interest;

6.  Respond to literature or informational readings through reading response journals and through responses to short open-ended questions;

7.  Use graphic organizers for taking notes and for referencing when responding to questions and presenting orally; and

8.  Experience writing by mirroring or replicating an author's writing genre.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-220a In-service training. Professional development. Institutes for educators. Cooperating and beginning teacher programs, regulations.

* 10-2211 State-wide Early Reading Success Institute

* 10-221h Plan to improve reading skills.

* 10-265g Summer reading programs required for priority school districts. Evaluation of student reading level. Personal reading plans (as amended by June Special Session PA 01-1)

* 10-266p Priority school district grant program.

* P.A. 99-288 An Act Concerning Education Accountability

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

