## 6144.1 - Exemption from Instruction

Substance abuse education is required by state statutes for all students annually and students are not exempt.

### Religious

If the religious belief and/or teachings of a student or his/her parents or guardian are contrary to the content of a school subject, or to any part of a school activity, the student may be exempt from participation.  To receive such an exemption, the parent or guardian must present a written request for exemption to the Principal stating the conflict involved.

### Medical

If a student is unable to participate in a physical education class, he/she must present to the Principal or designee a statement from a physician stating the reason for his/her inability to participate.

### AIDS Instruction

Currently there is no cure for those infected with AIDS, but the Board of Education believes that education is the best way to prevent the spread of AIDS.  By learning the facts about AIDS, students will be able to make decisions that will keep them healthy and perhaps save their lives.

A student will be exempted from instruction on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) upon receipt of a written request for exemption from his/her parent or guardian.

### Bilingual Education

A student will be exempted from the bilingual program upon receipt of a written request for exemption from his/her parent or guardian. Equivalent instruction, as determined by the teacher will be provided.

### Dissection of Animals

A student will be exempted from Dissection of Animals upon receipt of a written request for exemption from his/her parent or guardian.

Exemptions from required instruction do not excuse a student from the total semester hours required for graduation.

### Family Life and Sex Education

Students, parents or guardians shall be informed of their right to exempt the student from the family life program. The student will be exempted upon a written request for exemption from his/her parent or guardian.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-16b Prescribed courses of study.
>   * 10-16e Students not required to participate in the family life education program.
>   * 10-17f Required bilingual program (as amended by PA 98-168)
>   * 10-19(b) AIDS education.
>   * 10-19 Effect of alcohol, nicotine or tobacco and drugs to be taught.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

