## 6145.4 - Student Performances

Worthy and appropriate educational values often accrue from student participation in civic and community affairs both as individuals or as members of school musical, dramatic, or other organizations.

Student performances and presentations are encouraged when they contribute to the educational process and do not interfere with normal school routine.  All such performances shall be subject to the approval of the building Principal who shall either personally supervise or else assign a representative to supervise such a performance or presentation.

### Killingly High School Band

The Killingly High School Band may be asked to perform during the school year at school programs and official community affairs. The Band shall not be available for any candidate or political campaign. Appearances at other than school affairs must be approved by the Superintendent upon recommendation of the Principal.

All out of town appearances, except for school activities, will be on a voluntary basis and be subject to the approval of the Board.

All requests for band appearances should be made well in advance.

Proper supervision must be provided at all appearances, and insurance must be in effect.

### Television and Radio Broadcasts

Television and radio broadcasts of public performances by students -- including athletic events -- are approved only when such telecasts and broadcasts are in the public interest.  All such rights shall be granted in accordance with procedures to be established by the Board of Education and the school administration.

All requests for the right to televise a school event or series of events must be submitted in writing and are to be approved by the Board of Education.

The Board of Education delegates to the Superintendent of Schools, and to whomever he/she might designate, the authority to act on all requests for permission to broadcast school events over radio and television.

In either instance -- that is, for television or radio broadcasts -- it is essential that school authorities reserve the right to approve all sponsors to make certain that sponsorship does not include firms supplying goods or services inappropriate to school events.

Any broadcaster granted the right to transmit or record any school event assumes the responsibility for obtaining any releases legally required from students or staff and assumes liability for all actions of their assigned personnel.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

