## 6145.51 - National Honor Society/National Junior Honor Society

The Board of Education endorses the concept of the National Honor Society and the National Junior Honor Society in their ability to provide special recognition to students who combine scholarship with demonstrated leadership, extensive service and good character.  The Principal shall approve all activities and decisions of the chapter.  The Principal appoints the society advisor and the members of the faculty council.  The administration is directed to develop appropriate regulations regarding Honor Society Procedures.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

1.  Establishment

  The establishment of an honor society shall be optional at the middle and senior high school level.  The building administrator's approval is necessary for the establishment of an honor society.  The handbooks of the National Junior Honor Society and the National Honor Society are used as general procedural guides in established chapters of these national organizations.

2.  Eligibility

  A.  Eighth grade students are eligible for membership at the middle school or junior high level; eleventh and twelfth grade students, at the senior high level.

  B.  All middle school students at eligible grade levels who achieve an overall average of 86.5 in courses taken for credit shall be considered for membership. All high school students at eligible grade levels who achieve an overall GPA of at least 3.50 taken for credit shall be considered for membership.

3.  Selection of Members

  A.  In computing the scholastic average, grades in all subjects including special subjects such as physical education, art, music, industrial education, and home arts, shall be used.  Grades that have been accepted from another accredited school are also included in computing the average.

  B.  Service to the school or community organizations and leadership qualities shall be considered in addition to scholarship in the selection of students for membership.

  C.  In computing standing for membership at particular grade levels, the following shall apply for membership:

  1.  In the eighth grade, all seventh grade and first-semester eighth grade marks shall be considered.

  2.  In the eleventh grade, the final ninth, tenth, and first-semester eleventh grade marks shall be considered.

  3.  In the fall semester of the twelfth grade, the final ninth, tenth, and eleventh grade marks shall be considered.

  4.  In the spring semester of the twelfth grade, the final ninth, tenth, and eleventh and the first-semester twelfth grade marks shall be considered.

  D.  A representative faculty council appointed by the building administrator, and consisting of no fewer than five members, shall make the final selection of students for honor society membership.  The administrator shall determine the duration of council membership and the basis of representation among the faculty.  In the selection process, faculty members other than those on the council may be asked to evaluate for membership any students whom they know well.

4.  Probation or Dismissal

  Honor society members who are in jeopardy of losing their membership, because of a serious deficiency in one or more of the membership criteria, may be placed on a probationary status or dismissed from membership after a full review by the faculty council.  A majority vote of the faculty council shall determine a student's admission to, probationary status in, or dismissal from an honor society.

5.  Appeals Procedure

  Students who are not selected can request a meeting with the Advisor of the National Honor Society.  The advisor shall indicate the general area(s) in which the student was below expectations and recommend specific ways to improve in the future.

  In addition, the Principal shall explain the selection process to those students and parents who are unhappy with the results.  The Principal shall indicate the general area(s) in which the student was below expectations and recommend specific ways to improve in the future.  While maintaining confidentiality, the Principal may review individual rating sheets and convene the council for a discussion prior to making a determination as to the appropriateness of its decision.  If the Principal believes a technical error has been made in the selection process, he/she may ask the faculty council to reconvene and review the cases.  The Principal will investigate to ascertain that all aspects of the process were carried out fairly and properly.  The decision of the Principal shall be binding.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

