## 6145 - Extra-Class Activities

### Limited Open Forum

The Equal Access Act requires that public secondary schools grant access to student groups who wish to meet for religious, political, or philosophical purposes, if the school allows other types of non-curriculum related student groups to meet. The law establishes the open forum be held during the lunch hour or as determined by the school Principal to ensure equal access to student groups wishing to meet.

The Principal may approve student groups use of facilities to conduct a meeting during the open forum provided that:

1.  The meeting will take place during the open forum.  The open forum is defined as the lunch hour or non-instructional time as determined by the Principal.

2.  The meeting is voluntary and student initiated. The Principal must be assured that students are the ones promoting such activities and they are participating of their own volition. Only students enrolled in the school may request the meetings.

3.  School does not sponsor the meetings (i.e. authorities or district employees do not promote, lead or participate in such meetings). Principals may assign personnel to supervise these meetings. This action does not constitute sponsorship by the district of such meetings.

4.  The presence of school authorities or district employees or district personnel at any student religious meeting is non-participatory in nature. The presence of school authorities is for the purpose of observation only.

5.  The meeting does not in any way interfere with the conduct of regular instructional activities of the schools. Since the education of the student is the prime responsibility of the school, any other activities are secondary. The school may deny facilities to students on the basis that such activities or meetings interfere with the instructional program.

6.  Student meetings are not controlled, conducted or directed by person or groups not affiliated with the schools. Such persons may attend student meetings but not on a regular basis. Visitors to the school must be approved by the Principal and clearance obtained prior to the meeting.

7.  The meeting is open to all students without regard to race, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, religion or national origin.

Extracurricular activities are sanctioned by the Board of Education and regulated by the administration according to the following policy guidelines:

1.  The School System will provide students with adequate opportunities for voluntary participation in a wide variety of extracurricular activities.

2.  The overall objectives of the extracurricular program will be manifold, including the intellectual, social, physical, cultural, musical, personal, artistic, political and/or literary development of participating students.

3.  There will be a proper balance between activities which require special skills for participation and those that require only a willingness to be an active participant; between intramural and interscholastic activities; and between competitive and noncompetitive activities.

4.  Extracurricular activities may be recreational and/or educational. They will be based on active participation by students with adequate supervision, guidance, or instruction by a person or persons assigned by the administration.

5.  Extracurricular activities will augment, and not detract from the standard school programs.

6.  Eligibility for participation in extracurricular activities will be governed by regulations established by the Connecticut Association of Secondary Schools, where applicable.

7.  Activities, practices, games, or contests shall not be conducted on Sundays or on major legal holidays. The Board authorizes the Superintendent to grant exceptions to this prohibition on a case by case basis to accommodate unforeseen schedule changes. Such exceptions will be reported to the Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting.

8.  The duration of extracurricular activities shall be reasonable and commensurate with the requirements and objectives of the particular activity.

9.  Each advisor or coach will establish necessary regulations or training rules pertaining to participation in each activity, including the number of participants, time, frequency, and duration of meetings, absences, grooming, deportment, the care of equipment.

10.  The use of tobacco, alcohol, or controlled drugs is prohibited.

11.  Criteria for eligibility for participation in and expulsion or suspension from an activity will be carefully defined for each activity. Punishment for violation of published regulations or training rules shall be reasonable and appropriate. Serious disciplinary matters will be handled by the Advisor or Coach in concert with the Principal or Athletic

Legal Reference:   

* Westside Community Board of Education v. Mergens

* Equal Access Act

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

---

### Grades 9 - 12 Eligibility

Extra-curricular activities shall be defined as student participation in all school-sponsored and formally organized activities which occur outside of the school day. School functions (e.g. dances, bonfires, pep rallies, graduation, etc.) are not included.

Participation shall apply as follows:

1.  Interscholastic Athletics - All student participants, including athletes, trainers, managers, score keepers, etc.

In order to participate a student must meet the requirements set by the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference (CIAC).

2.  Academic Class Organizations - Freshman class, Sophomore class, etc.: All elected and appointed officers, committee chairpersons and participants in committee activities.

3.  Voluntary Organizations and Clubs - i.e. Future Farmers of America, Ski Club, Future Homemakers, Drama, etc.: All student participants.

4.  Band and Chorus - All participants, including instrumentalists, members of auxiliary groups, student secretaries, officers, equipment managers, etc.

Because of the importance that Killingly High School places upon both academics and participation in extra-curricular activities, it offers after-school tutorial sessions to any student who needs academic help.

The administration is required to assure that those students whose performance is unsatisfactory (D or F) at the mid-marking period warning notice or at the time of report cards, receive a minimum of two after school tutorial sessions per week until the grade improves to a satisfactory level.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

### Athletic Regulations

The Killingly Board of Education believes that a diversified athletic program offering the opportunity to participate to the maximum possible number of students will make a significant contribution to the total education program.

To provide guidance to the administration and faculty in developing and operating the program, the following objectives are established.

1.  High School and Middle School

  A.  The prime goal of all interscholastic and intramural athletic activities will be to improve the physical and mental capabilities of all team members and at the same time, develop good sportsmanship and "team spirit." This will be the basis for evaluating coaching performance and making future assignments.

  B.  The program shall provide an opportunity for the maximum possible number of qualified students to participate in interscholastic or intramural competition.

  C.  Programs must emphasize appropriate safeguards at all times and judgments with respect to an individual's ability to participate after injury or other health problems must be more protective than risk-taking.

  D.  While the Board of Education takes great pride in winning, it does not condone "winning at any cost" and strongly opposes any and all pressures tending to submerge good sportsmanship and good mental and physical health beneath the desire to win.

  E.  Board of Education subscribes to the rules and regulations of the CIAC.

  F.  Schedules should emphasize “even” competition with schools of equivalent program goals and capability. Should significant differences in capability develop with established “rivals,” who continue with similar program goals, continuation of the relationship will not be discouraged unless the safety of the participants is involved.

  G.  School or family physicians shall have the authority to control the participation of any student in any interscholastic or intramural competition.  Medical personnel shall be in attendance at all varsity football games – home and away.

  H.  Ninth grade students shall not engage in varsity football competition. Participation in sports such as soccer, basketball and baseball at a varsity level must be approved by the school Principal and be in accordance with CIAC rules and regulations.

2.  Elementary Schools

  Competition will be scheduled only within the Killingly school system.

3.  Coaches

  Where possible all coaches shall be members of the Killingly School System. Annually, the Superintendent shall report to the Board of Education the number and percentage of coaches that are not members of the faculty of the Killingly School System.

4.  Scholastic Eligibility

  In order to participate in interscholastic athletics, a student must be "in good scholastic standing" as determined by the Killingly school administration and in accordance with CIAC rules and regulations.

5.  Sunday Participation

  Games, scrimmages, or practices shall not be conducted on Sundays in Killingly or elsewhere, except as authorized by the Superintendent in accordance with Board policy.

### Sunday Play of Postponed Friday and Saturday Games

The Board of Education endorses the allowance of Sunday play of postponed Friday and Saturday games under the guidelines as stipulated in the C.I.A.C. policy.

1.  The postponement must be due to severely adverse weather conditions.

2.  The two competing schools must agree to Sunday play of a postponed game.

3.  No Sunday game may start before 1:30 p.m.

4.  A postponed Friday game may be played on Sunday only if a site is not available on Saturday or if severely adverse weather conditions exist on Saturday.

The Principal, in making the decision to postpone, will consult with the Athletic Director.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

