## 6146.2 - Statewide Proficiency/Mastery Examinations

Each student enrolled in the fourth, sixth, eighth and tenth grades shall take a statewide mastery examination (measuring whether or not a student has mastered essential grade level skills in reading, language arts and mathematics).  The mastery examination shall be provided by and administered under the supervision of the State Board of Education.

Students who meet or exceed the statewide mastery goal on each component of the statewide tenth grade mastery examination, shall have a certification of such mastery made on the permanent record and transcript.  A student who has not met the mastery goal level on each component of the mastery examination may annually take or retake each such component at its regular administration until the student scores at or above each goal level or until the student graduates or turns twenty-one (21).

The school district may not require achievement of a satisfactory score on the statewide proficiency examination or statewide mastery examination, or any subsequent retest on a component of such examinations as the sole criterion of promotion or graduation.

Special education students shall participate in mastery testing except when their planning and placement team determines that participation would be inappropriate and recommends the use of an alternative assessment as specified by the State Board of Education.

The provisions on mastery testing shall not apply to any student enrolled for two (2) years or less in a bilingual program, or English as a Second Language program.

The school district shall biennially report to the State Board of Education indicators of (a) instructional improvement and, (b) student progress as a result of testing, remedial assistance and compensatory program in accordance with C.G.S. 10-14m et seq.

(cf. 5121 - Examination/Grading/Rating)

(cf. [6146](6146.md) - Graduation Requirements)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-14m Development and submission of educational evaluation and remedial assistance plan.

* 10-14n Statewide mastery examination. Conditions for reexamination.  Limitation on use of test results.

* 10-14o  Compensatory education grant. Financial statement of expenditures.

* 10-14p Reports by local and regional boards re instructional improvement and student progress.

* 10-14q Exceptions (as amended by PA 01-205)

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

