## 6146.1 - Grading

The issuance of grades on a regular basis serves to promote a process of continuous evaluation of student performance and to provide the student with specific and timely feedback on progress made toward essential learning outcomes.   Such feedback should be provided so as to give students the opportunity to improve upon their current performance, if such improvement is necessary.

### MARK EQUIVALENTS

For the purposes of providing students with feedback, and calculating grades through the averaging of curriculum assessments, the following mark equivalents shall be utilized by teachers of grade levels where an A-B-C-D-F grading system is employed.

| Letter Grade | Mark Equivalent |
| -- | -- |
| A+ | 97-100 |
| A  | 93-96 |
| A- | 90-92 |
| B+ | 87-89 |
| B  | 83-86 |
| B- | 80-82 |
| C+ | 77-79 |
| C  | 73-76 |
| C- | 70-72 |
| D  | 65-69 |
| F  | 64 or below |
| I  | Incomplete |

1.  A+ shall be recognized at the elementary schools and middle school only.

2.  "D+", "D-", "F+", "F-" are not a part of the grading system.

3.  Teachers may elect to assign an "I" (Incomplete) when work is either incomplete or not submitted on time.

4.  Every effort shall be made by the teacher to encourage a student to submit incomplete work prior to assigning an "F".

5.  If a student fails to complete an assignment/assessment on time, an "I" will be entered as the grade and they will be given ten (10) school days to complete the assignment/assessment. If the assignment/assessment is completed within this time frame, the grade assigned by the teacher will be based on the facts and circumstances surrounding the delay, and will be guided by the best interests of the student. The 10 day limit may be extended based on extenuating circumstances.  (effective January 2, 2013)

6.  Teachers may weigh assessments according to their relative importance, i.e.

  | Performance assessment task | x2 |
  | Quizzes | x1 |
  | Homework | x1 |

### Weighted Grading

Killingly High School employs a "weighted grading system" to determine rank-in-class. Class rank is significant to those students who are seeking admission to colleges and universities and/or special employment opportunities. Three levels of weighting are used to compute rank: Honors/AP, College Preparatory, and General/Basic. All courses are assigned a weight based on the level of difficulty and nature of the course. Each course description in the KHS Course Selection Guide displays the weight assigned to the course.

The system of weights is as follows:

| Letter Grade | Honors/AP | College Preparatory | General/Basic |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| A | 5 | 4.5 | 4 | 
| B | 4 | 3.5 | 3 |
| C | 3 | 2.5 | 2 |
| D | 2 | 1.5 | 1 |
| F | 0 | 0 | 0 |

> Plus (+) and minus (-) grades will be proportionately higher or lower than the grades indicated above.  An "A+" is not recognized at the high school in determining rank in class.

Weights are not used in determining honor roll status.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* P.A 99-81 An Act Concerning Weighted Grading for Honors Classes.

Policy adopted:  

* September 8, 2004

* December 8, 2004

* December 12, 2012

