## 6153 - Field Trips

The Board of Education recognizes the valuable experiences derived from field trips for students when properly planned, executed, and evaluated.  To the extent that budgetary resources permit, the Board encourages field trips.  In most cases, field trips should be directly related to or be an extension of the classroom learning experiences.  In this respect, field trips may be used as springboards or culminating activities for units presented in the classroom or to provide "hands on" experience for students involved in the study of specific topics.  In addition, field trips may introduce students to new learning experience through participation of observation of such activities as exhibits, dramatic presentations and other timely and appropriate events.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

1.  Instructional travel away from the school grounds is recognized by the Board of Education as a significant part of the educational program of a school, provided that it:

  a.    Is directly related to the stated curriculum

  b.    Enhances student learning

  c.    Assures student safety

  d.    Has been carefully planned by the teacher and building level administration

2.  Students must be made aware of the purpose of the planned field trip and be involved in the planning process.

3.  Field trip plans must include evaluation of the experience with follow-up classroom activities to reinforce the educational value of the trip.

4.  The Board of Education recognizes the following types of instructional travel for students in grades K-12:

  a.  Day field trips, both in-state and out-of-state

  b.  Overnight field trips both within and outside the United States

5.  It is necessary to have an adequate number of adult chaperones.  Factors to be considered are: age of children, location, and nature of the trip.

  a.  Elementary Supervision on Field Trips:

  The Board requires that all Elementary trips (Pre-kindergarten - 5) will have a 5 to 1 student-chaperone ratio.

  b.  Secondary Supervision on Field Trips:

  The Board requires that all in-state secondary trips (6-8) will have a minimum of a 10 to 1 student-chaperone ration.

  The Board requires that all in-state secondary trips (9-12) will have a minimum of 15 to 1 student-chaperone ratio.

  Out-of-state/overnight trips for secondary students (6-12) will have a minimum of an 8 to 1 and a maximum of a 10 to 1 student-chaperone ratio.

6.  For all field trips within a 25 mile radius of the school, requests must be submitted to the building administrator 30 days in advance of the departure date.  Trip requests in excess of the 25 mile radius and/or any out-of-state field trips must be filed with the building administrator 60 days in advance of the departure date.  All out-of-state field trips require the approval of the Superintendent of Schools.

7.  Signed parental permission must be obtained for each student going on a field trip.

8.  The Superintendent will recommend to the Board of Education all overnight and out-of-state educational travel requests for final Board approval.

9.  All school rules and regulations shall remain in force on all field trips.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

