## 6154 - Homework/Make-Up Work

Learning is a continuous process which extends beyond the school day. Homework should develop responsibility, foster good work habits, and reinforce and/or enrich that which has been instructed.

Homework assignments, appropriate to grade level, will be required. Homework requirements for handicapped students may vary on an individual basis. Any adjustments to these requirements must be stated in the child’s Individual Educational Program.

The teacher should create learning situations in the school that will inspire children to continue learning at home, yet will leave leisure time for activities outside of school.

The teacher should ensure that the student understands the homework assignment and is able to complete it independently within a reasonable length of time.

Homework assignments for grades 1 and 2 should be informal but should foster the linkage of responsibility between home and school.

In grades 3 and 4 assignments in academic studies should be introduced.

In grades 5 through 8 assignments should recognize the special educational needs of pre-adolescents and these assignments should blend children’s academic, physical and psycho-social interests. With each succeeding grade assignments should become more complex and demanding.

In grades 9 through 12 assignments of both short and long term duration will be required.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-221(b) Boards of Education to prescribe rules.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

---

### Introduction

1.  Homework will provide opportunities for students to engage in practice of previously mastered skills/concepts.

2.  Homework will provide opportunities for students to extend their thinking on information/concepts previously mastered.

3.  Homework will provide opportunities for students to develop responsibility for their own learning.

4.  Homework will provide the teacher with frequent diagnostic information, thus allowing for continuous monitoring of student learning.

5.  Homework will provide the opportunity for the teacher to give immediate and specific feedback, to students.

### Teacher Responsibilities

1.  Teachers must be clear in their explanation of the purpose, importance and performance requirements of the assignments.

2.  Teachers must inform students of the methods of evaluation to be used.

3.  Teachers must include performance on homework in the computation of marking period grades.

4.  Teachers must inform students as to how performance on homework is weighted in the computation of grades.

5.  Teachers must return homework to students in a timely fashion.

6.  Teachers should vary the types of homework assigned and the evaluation methods employed. Whenever appropriate, homework should be used to provide students with opportunities to extend their thinking to higher levels.

### Student Responsibilities

1.  Students should use homework as an opportunity to experience success in a non-testing situation and build skills and self-confidence through achievement.

2.  Students should use homework as a means to develop self-discipline and time management skills.

3.  Students should be certain they understand the purpose, importance, performance requirements and method of evaluation for the assignments.

4.  Students should use homework as a means to employ both individual and group approaches to learning so that through homework they can expand their own learning skills.

### Parental Responsibilities

1.  Parents should use homework as an opportunity to become directly involved in the education of their child.

2.  Parents should provide students with an environment that promotes good study habits.

3.  Parents should support and encourage the student’s homework and recognize homework activities as an integral part of the learning process.

4.  Parents should contact the teacher, counselor or administrator in the event of questions or concerns.

### P.P.T. Responsibilities

1.  The P.P.T. must stipulate any modifications which are necessary for handicapped students to benefit from homework.

2.  Modifications may be stated generally on Page 2 of the Individual Education Plan (I.E.P.) using such terms as “modification to homework assignments will be made as the need arises and as determined by special and regular education staff.”

3.  Modifications may be stated specifically on the goal pages as determined by the P.P.T. When this occurs, completion of independent assignments must be noted as a weakness on the strengths and weaknesses page of the I.E.P.

4.  Changes to individual homework plans specified in a student’s I.E.P. require P.P.T. action including all safeguards to parental rights indicated in the law.

### Suggested Time Requirements by Grade

| Grade | Time (minutes) | Times per week |
| 1 | 15-20 | 2 or 3 |
| 2 | 15-20 | 2 or 3 |
| 3 | 20-30 | 2 or 3 |
| 4 | 30-40 | 4 |
| 5 | 40-50 | 4 |
| 6 | 50-60 | 4 |
| 7 | 60-90 | 5 |
| 8 | 60-90 | 5 |

In grades nine through twelve homework of both long-term and short-term duration should be expected in all academic courses. The length of time necessary to complete assignments will vary upon the nature of the assignment.

Children differ in the ease with which they learn and consequently some children will take more time to complete homework than will others. The above time allotments will be appropriate for most children.

### Make-Up Work

Make-up work for absences is the responsibility of the student.  Arrangements must be begun for making up work within (5) school days of return to school.  The administration may extend the deadline in exceptional cases.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**
