## 6161.21 - Damaged or Lost Educational Materials

The Killingly Board of Education has the responsibility to provide its students with textbooks, library books and other educational materials at no cost.

The student and/or the parents or guardians have an equal responsibility to care for these textbooks, library books and other educational materials.

In the event these textbooks, library books and other educational materials are damaged or lost, regardless of the reason, the student and/or the parents or guardians must pay for the materials at their replacement cost.

Failure to do so may result in the withholding of grades and report cards; and/or non-participation in promotion or graduation exercises, extra-curricular activities and inter-scholastic athletics. 

Money collected will be recorded in a ledger, kept for that purpose and deposited in a special account.

Replacement books will be purchased annually from money in that account

### Fees for Materials of Non-Required Projects

Students involved in special interest work over and above the basic instructional program may be charged for materials necessary in their chosen project.

### Athletic Uniforms and Equipment

Students will be responsible for the care and safe return of athletic uniforms and equipment loaned to them.  Students will be required to pay the full costs of repairs for uniform or equipment damage due to misuse or negligence.  Students will be responsible for full replacement cost for lost uniforms or equipment.

The Supervisor of Physical Education and Athletics shall develop and implement appropriate uniform control procedures which shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent of Schools.

### Uniforms

Students will be responsible for care and safe return of uniforms loaned to them.  Students will be required to pay the full costs of repairs for uniform damage due to misuse or negligence.  Students will be responsible for full replacement cost for lost uniforms.

The supervisor of the activity shall develop and implement appropriate uniform control procedures which shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent of Schools.

### Fines For Inappropriate Use of Library Materials

In order to encourage borrowers to return books promptly so that others may use them, the library imposes a fine on patrons who keep library materials beyond the due date.  Where applicable, a fine of five (5) cents per item per day up to a maximum of no greater than replacement cost.  If a book or other item is lost, the borrower will only be charged for the replacement and reprocessing costs.  In the case of damaged books or items, actual repair costs or replacement costs may be imposed.

Materials from the reserve collection kept beyond the specific stated period will incur a fine of ten (10) cents per item per day up to a maximum no greater than replacement cost.

### Field Trips

In general, transportation costs for field trips must be borne by the student.  In view of this fact, discretion should be used in planning field trips to avoid unreasonable costs.  A minimal insurance cost for each student will also be required.

### Lab Fees

No system of lab fees will be permitted.  However, students in courses offered in grades seven through twelve may be charged for loss or breakage of equipment due to misuse or negligence after the facts have been determined.

### Other Fees

In accordance with Board policy, the cost of the following items are to be borne by the student:

*  Cap and gown for graduation;

*  Class ring;

*  Yearbook;

*  Charity drives;

*  Class dues;

*  Materials used in club activities;

*  Musical instruments for participating in a school band or orchestra except those provided by the school;

*  Club dues;

*  Dances.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules.
>   * 10-228 Free textbooks, supplies, materials and equipment.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

