## 6161.2 - Guidelines For Care of Instructional Materials

Library books, textbooks, and other educational materials are loaned to the students for their use, and shall be returned when requested by school authorities. Students must pay the current value of any book or educational material lost or damaged beyond ordinary wear.

Teachers are to make certain that all textbooks issued to students are stamped as “Property of (School Name)”, with each copy uniquely numbered. Teachers are to keep a record of such numbers so students who lose books or damage books cam be charged.  All textbooks should be covered.

Any book should be considered a textbook if a department has multiple copies of it. Even if the book is a resource book or which the department has five copies, it should be numbered so students can be recorded as having a particular copy of the book and can be charged if he/she fails to return it.

Faculty members should provide a student with a second copy of a textbook if the first copy is lost. The student should be informed he/she will have to pay for the lost book if it has not turned up by the end of the school year.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-22 Boards of education to prescribe rules (subsection (c) re sanctions that may be imposed against students who damage or fail to return textbooks, library materials or other educational materials)
>   * 10-222a Boards to have use of funds derived from repayment for school materials.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

