## 6161 - Equipment, Books, Materials: Provision/Selection

### Provision

It is the policy of the Board of Education to provide educational materials and equipment that support and enrich the curriculum and further the achievement of the school system’s instructional goals.

Section. 10-229 of the General Statutes of Connecticut states: “No Board of Education shall change any textbooks used in the public schools except by a two-thirds vote of all the members of the board, notice of such intended change having been previously given at a meeting of such Board held at least one week previous to the vote upon such change.”

### Selection

The selection of basic textbooks will be carried on continuously in order to keep up with the great expansion of knowledge and the rapid changes going on in our world today.

Where applicable, all textbooks should present balanced views concerning the international, national and local issues and problems of the past, present and future. Textbooks should:

1.  provide materials to stimulate growth in factual knowledge, literary appreciation, aesthetic and ethical values.

2.  provide materials that will help students develop abilities in critical reading and thinking.

3.  provide materials that will develop and foster an appreciation of cultural diversity and development in the United States and throughout the world.

4.  provide for all students an effective basic education that does not discriminate on the basis of race, age, color, religion, national origin, sex or physical disabilities.

5.  allow sufficient flexibility for meeting the special needs of individual students and groups of students.

The administration will develop and review administrative rules outlining a procedure to select textbooks which meet the above criteria. This process shall include:

1.  analysis, evaluation and recommendation by professional staff, and

2.  the opportunity for interested citizens in the district to review recommended textbooks.

The Board of Education by statute will make the final textbook selection decision.

(cf. 1220 - Citizens’ Advisory Committees)

(cf. 1312 - Public Complaints)

(cf. 4118.21 - Academic Freedom)

(cf. 5145.2 - Freedom of Speech/ Expression)

(cf. 6144 - Controversial Issues)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-15c Discrimination in public schools prohibited (as amended by P.A. 80-405)

* 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules

* 10-228 Free textbooks, supplies, materials and equipment

* 10-229 Change of textbooks

* President's Council, District 25 v. Community School Board no. 25, 457 F.2d 289 (1972), cert. denied 409 U.S.C. 998 (Nov. 1972)

* Minarcini v. Strongsville City School District, 541 F.2d 577 (6th Cir. 1976).

* Academic Freedom Policy (adopted by Connecticut State Board of Education, 9/9/81)

### Textbook Selection Process

**High School:**

1.  The Department Coordinator or, in situations where no Department Coordinator exists, department member(s) shall submit complete Form I, Textbook Change Request, and any other necessary information to the High School Principal (or to the administrator who supervises the Department)

2.  Upon acceptance by the High School Principal or designee, the completed Textbook Change Request Form, any other necessary information, and a recommendation from the Principal shall be forwarded to the Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction.

3.  Upon acceptance by the Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction, a recommendation shall be made to the Board of Education for final approval.

**Grades PK-8:**

1.  Completed Form I, Textbook Change Request, and any other necessary information shall be forwarded to the respective Administrative Liaison by members of the district-wide curriculum sub-committee.

2.  Upon acceptance, the Administrative Liaison shall forward completed Form I, other necessary information, and a recommendation to the Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction.

3.  Upon acceptance by the Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction, a recommendation shall be made to the Board of Education for final approval.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

