## 6162.7 - Educational Software

The Board recognizes that technology is an integral part of everyday living affecting every aspect of our society and, therefore, is committed to educational technology for all students.

The Board wishes to ensure that all employees and students of the Killingly Public School System who use technology adhere to all statutes concerning software copyrights, use of technology and technology services as well as their ethical use.

The Killingly Public School System maintains full copyright on all software and related materials developed by its employees in whole or in part either during the time(s) for which they are being compensated or during a time for which they are not compensated but have utilized equipment owned by the Killingly Public School System. Such materials are equally the property of the school system and the employee that developed it.

Software Usage Guidelines:

1.  Duplicating copyrighted software is not permitted unless it is specifically authorized under a policy or license agreement with the software developer.

2.  Copying of public domain or shareware programs is permitted provided that there is adequate documentation available to prove that it is public domain. Furthermore, the software should be labeled "Public Domain Software" or "Shareware"

3.  Illegal copies of software, according to current copyright laws, may not be used on school system computers.

4.  Software usage for both network and stand-alone versions must adhere to the following:

  Lab-packs may only be loaded and utilized on the number of computers designated by the lab-pack agreement.

  Site licenses may only be loaded and utilized on the number of computers designated by the site-license agreement. Extensions of such licenses beyond the originally designated number must be fully documented and attached to the original purchase agreement.

  Killingly Public School District licenses may only be loaded and utilized on the number of computers designated by the Killingly Public School District-license agreement. All sites involved in such usage will be informed of the usage restrictions in writing by the Killingly Public School District designee. Any changes needed at the site level under such an agreement must be approved by the IT Coordinator.

### Software Purchases

1.  All software purchases must have the appropriate object code regardless of the funding source. 

2.  All software purchases, regardless of funding source, must be approved by the IT Coordinator.

3.  Purchases not on the approved Killingly Public School District software listing, MUST FOLLOW the current Killingly Public School District procedures for software evaluation.

(cf. 6161.1 – Guidelines for Evaluation/Selection of Instructional Materials)

(cf. 6161.7 – Use of Proprietary Software Products)

(cf. 6126.6 – Use of Copy Devices, Copyrights)

(cf. 6162.61 – Copyright Compliance)

(cf. 6163 – Instructional Resources for Students)

(cf. 4132.1 – Copyrights and Patents)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 1-19(b)(11) Access to public records. Exempt records.

* 10-15b Access of parent or guardians to student’s records.

* 10-209 Records not to be public

* 11-8a Retention, destruction and transfer of documents

* 11-8b Transfer or disposal of public records. State Library Board to adopt regulations

* 46b-56(e) Access to Records of Minors

* Connecticut Public Records Administration Schedule V – Disposition of Education Records (Revised 1983)

* Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (section 438 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended, added by section 513 of PL 93-568, codified at 20 U.S.C. 1232g.)

* Department of Education 34 C.F.R. Part 99 (May 9, 1980 45 FR 30802) regs. implementing FERPA enacted as part of 438 of General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g) parent and student privacy and other rights with respect to educational records, as amended 11/21/96.

* Public Law 94-553, The Copyright Act of 1976, 17 U.S.C. 101 et. seq.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**


### Educational Software: License

Staff members shall adhere to the following sequence of steps:

### Obtaining Software - Four Acceptable Methods

a.  Purchased Software - To purchase copyrighted software or shareware, employees must obtain the approval of the IT Coordinator. All software acquired using this method must be purchased through the district purchase methods which require a purchase order.

b.  Purchase Shareware - Same as above.

c.  Freeware - Before downloading or accepting freeware as a gift, employees must obtain the approval of the IT department. Freeware includes popular downloads such as weather monitors and search toolbars. A list of acceptable freeware will be maintained and will constitute an approval for all applications on the list.

d.  Donated Software - Software may not be purchased by an employee using private funds and then installed on a Killingly Public School District's computer. However, individuals may donate software to be installed on Killingly Public School District computers only with the written approval of an administrator or technology coordinator/staff. All original materials, licenses, and diskettes or CD's must accompany the software donation and written documentation must exist for the donation prior to installation. Software acquisition channels are restricted as above to ensure that Killingly Public School District schools have a complete record of all software that has been installed on Killingly Public School District computers and can register, support, track, and upgrade such software accordingly. These restrictions also help to avoid security vulnerabilities on the computer systems.

### Installation of Software

After the registration requirements above have been met, the software may either be installed by the IT Coordinator or a qualified individual with the permission of the Coordinator. No software shall be installed on Killingly Public School District computers without the approval of the IT Coordinator who will need to support this hardware/software tandem and who will periodically report all installations to the Superintendent of Schools.  Students are not allowed to install software on Killingly Public School District computers under any circumstances.

### Software User's Manual

Original manuals, tutorials, and other user-oriented documentation will be made available, whenever possible, to assist the software users. The Killingly Public School District technology coordinator/staff will also continue to train both teachers and students in the use of appropriate computer software. When manuals are not available, staff members are encouraged to locate and request purchase of support materials for the software. It is recommended that one copy or original of all supporting manuals for installed software be filed with the school-level records.

### Home Computers - Use of Software at Home

Killingly Public School District computers are assets and must be kept both software legal and virus free. Only software obtained through the procedures outlined above may be used on Killingly Public School District machines. Employees are not permitted to bring software from home and load it on Killingly Public School District computers. Generally, Killingly Public School District owned software cannot be taken home and loaded on an employee's computer if it also resides in the Killingly Public School District's computer. However, some software companies provide in their license agreements that home use is permitted under certain circumstances. Killingly Public School District employees or students, prior to taking any software home, must check with the technology coordinator/staff to see if it can be legally checked out and follow the sign-out and sign-in procedures.

### Virus Protection-Data Disks

Virus protection on school computers shall be maintained at all times. Data disks are diskettes that contain information, data, or documents that were created or manipulated by a software program. These are not considered to be software and may be copied to and from school computers. Teachers or students who bring in data disks from home are responsible to ensure that their disks are free from viruses. Virus protection software should be used to examine these disks before they are used in a Killingly Public School District computer. It is the responsibility of teachers and other faculty members to constantly monitor student use of computers and review all policies and procedures with the students regarding the acceptable use of technology.

### School-Wide Area Network and Internet

All provisions of this policy extend beyond the single computer in use to the entire school network and the Internet. Generally, all software installed for use over the school network under a multiple license will be installed and maintained by the system technology staff.

### Software Audits

The Technology Coordinator/Director/Staff will conduct random audits of all Killingly Public School District PC's to ensure that the Killingly Public School District is in compliance with all software licenses. The Technology Coordinator/Director/Staff will submit a written report of any incidents of software violations found to the building administrator and to the Superintendent of Schools. Any installed software for which no documentation or record exists will be reported as a violation. All such software will be eventually removed from Killingly Public School District computers. Staff members or students who violate this software policy may lose their use of the computer, the school network, the Internet, and/or be subject to other disciplinary measures.

### Educational Software Review and Acquisition Process

1.  All software will correlate with the curriculum, academic area outcomes, the CMT and/or CAPT.

2.  Software must be evaluated by the IT Coordinator and the curriculum staff within the Killingly Public School District to ensure that the software is appropriate for our children. In addition, software evaluations from outside sources will be examined.  Where appropriate, such software must be reviewed by the Curriculum Subcommittee of the Board of Education.

3.  Killingly Public School District-wide or large discount purchases may be recommended saving the school system a considerable amount of money and ensuring that only high quality software is purchased.

### Backup Copies of Copyrighted Computer Software

1.  Schools may lawfully make one copy of a copyrighted single-license application. The following conditions must be met:

  A.  One and only one copy is made.

  B.  One copy should be labeled with the name of the program, name of the publisher, and the copyright holder.

2.  Only the circulating copy may be used.

3.  If the circulating copy is no longer usable, another copy may be made from the archival copy.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

