## 6163.111 - Challenged Library Media Materials

### Policy and Procedures

Occasionally, objections to a selection will be made by the public despite the care taken to select valuable materials for student and teacher use. The principles of freedom to read and the professional responsibility of the staff must be defended rather than the materials.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

### Administrative Regulations

If a complaint is made, procedures should be as follows:

1.  Be courteous, but make no comment. Refer complaint to building level media specialist.

2.  Ask the individual lodging the complaint to file objections in writing and offer a prepared form such as a Citizen’s Request for Reconsideration of Educational Material, so that a formal complaint may be submitted.

3.  The Principal and the media personnel review the questioned material.

4.  The written complaint, together with reviews and recommendations, is submitted to the Superintendent.

5.  The Superintendent, after reviewing the complaint, and recommendations, and upon consultation with the Principal and media personnel, will formulate a decision.

6.  The Superintendent, informs the complainant, in writing of the decision. Copies of the written decision and all pertinent material are forwarded to the school board, the Principal and the library media person.

7.  If the decision requires further consideration, the Superintendent schedules an interview with the complainant, the Principal and the library media person.

8.  If the issue is not resolved at this level, the complainant may appeal the decision to the school board.

9.  The school board may elect to hear the complainant, with the Principal and library media person present.

10.  A committee may be appointed by the school board specifically to review the particular materials in question.

11.  The school board will determine the disposition of the resources in question, based upon the report of the review committee, and the reports previously submitted.

12.  The complainant will be informed, in writing, by the school board of its decision. The complainant is further apprised of additional. avenues of appeal.

Adapted from the publication of the American Association of School Librarians by New Hampshire Educational Media Association, 1976.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

