## 6163.1 - Selection of School Library Media Resources

### Responsibility for Selection of Materials

The Killingly School Board is legally responsible for all matters relating to the operation of Killingly Schools, including the Library Media Resource Center. This School Board subscribes to the Library Bill of Rights (AASL).

The primary responsibility for the selection of library materials lies with media specialists employed by the school system. Recommendation of resources may involve many people: principals, supervisors, teachers, students, parents and laypersons. The responsibility for coordinating the selection of library media resources and making the recommendation for purchase rests with the professionally trained media personnel.

### Objectives of Selection

The primary objective of the school’s educational media center is to implement, enrich and support the educational program of the school. It is the responsibility of the center to provide a wide range of materials on all levels of difficulty, with diversity of appeal, and the presentation of different points of view.

The Killingly School Board asserts that the responsibility of the library media center is:

*  to provide materials that will enrich and support the curriculum, taking into consideration the varied interests, abilities and maturity levels of the students served.

*  to provide materials that will stimulate growth in factual knowledge, literary appreciation, aesthetic values and ethical standards.

*  to provide a background of information that will enable students to make intelligent judgments in their daily lives.

*  to provide materials on opposing sides of controversial issues so that young citizens may develop, under guidance, the practice of critical analysis of all media.

*  to provide materials representative of the many religious, ethnic and cultural groups and their contributions to our American heritage.

*  to place principle above personal opinion and reason above prejudice in the selection of materials of the highest quality in order to assure a comprehensive collection appropriate for the users of the library media center.

### Criteria for Selection of Library Media Resources

Needs of the individual school based on knowledge of the curriculum, teacher and student needs and of the existing collection are given first consideration. Materials for purchase are considered on the basis of:

*  overall purpose

*  timeliness and permanence

*  importance of the subject matter

*  quality of the writing or production

*  readability and popular appeal

*  authoritativeness

*  reputation of the producer or publisher

*  reputation and significance of the author, artist, composer

*  format and price

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

### Administrative Regulations

In selecting materials for purchase, library media personnel evaluate the existing collection and consult:

*  reputable, unbiased, professionally prepared selection aids including book lists, special bibliographies, current reviewing media etc., such as publications of the American Library Association, National Councils of Teachers of English, H.W. Wilson Catalog series and the publications of other professional educational organizations.

*  subject specialists and other educators at all grade levels.

*  media or curriculum committees, where they may exist, which serve in an advisory capacity in the selection of materials.

In specific areas, the library media person follows procedures such as the following:

*  Gift materials are judged by basic selection standards, and are accepted or rejected by these standards.

*  Multiple copies are purchased as needed.

*  Worn or missing standard items are replaced systematically.

*  Out-of-date or no longer useful materials are withdrawn from the collection.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**
