## 6164.11 - Drugs, Tobacco, Alcohol

Since the use of these harmful agents may have a deleterious effect on the health and welfare of the users, and causes far-reaching detrimental consequences to the users, their families and society, the Board of Education desires that every effort be made by all staff members to reduce the chances that students will begin or continue use of such harmful drugs, tobacco and alcohol.

The professional staff shall become more aware of the problem, and become more expert in recognition of the symptoms of such use. Annually, teachers in each grade shall emphasize the effect of alcohol, nicotine, tobacco and drugs on health, character, citizenship and personality development wherever appropriate in the health education program and other contexts which touch on the subject.

It is desired that the administration make use of in-service training sessions for both certified and non-certified staff to achieve the goals of this policy, and that full cooperation with community agencies be given wherever such cooperation can be advantageous to the students.

(cf. 5131.6 - Drugs, Tobacco, Alcohol)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-16b Prescribed courses of study.

* 10-19 Effect of alcohol, nicotine or tobacco and drugs to be taught.

* 10-19a Superintendent to designate substance abuse prevention team.

* 10-19b Advisory councils on drug abuse prevention.

* 10-220 Duties of boards of education.

* 10-221(d) Boards of education to prescribe rules.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**
