## 6164.12 - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS)

Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is a serious health problem in the United States. Currently there is no cure for AIDS. The Killingly Board of Education advocates that education about AIDS should be provided to students and that it be presented in a societal context. Specifically, students should be encouraged and instructed in how to make decisions to protect their own health as well as their responsibility to minimize the transmission of the disease. Further, the Board supports the public health community's position that sexual abstinence is the best way to prevent the spread of AIDS. In addition, the Board believes that sexual abstinence protects the student psychologically from the stress of adult decision making during adolescence.

The Board hopes that parents will join in partnership with the schools in conveying health information and sound decision making to the children of Killingly. For those parents who wish to handle these topics without the involvement of the schools, the administration will inform parent(s), guardian(s) of their right to have their child(ren) excluded from AIDS instruction. The request must be presented to the Principal in writing.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-19(b) Teaching about alcohol, nicotine or tobacco, drugs and acquired immune deficiency syndrome.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

Students will be exempt from instruction on acquired immune deficiency syndrome upon written request of the parent or guardian in accordance with this regulation.

### Administrative Regulation

1.  Within two (2) weeks after the first day of school, the Superintendent of Schools will forward, or cause to be forwarded, to all parents of children attending the schools of the district, correspondence informing them of the following:

  1.1  The State requirement for instruction on acquired immune deficiency syndrome and this district's compliance with that requirement.

  1.2   Parent’s right to exempt their child(ren) from instruction on acquired immune deficiency syndrome.

  1.3   Procedures to be followed by parents who wish to cause their child(ren) to be exempt from instruction on acquired immune deficiency syndrome:

    1.3.1  Parents who wish to cause their child(ren) to be exempt will notify the Building Principal.

    1.3.2  The Building Principal will provide an opportunity for parents requesting an exemption to review the curriculum for acquired immune deficiency syndrome instruction. (Principals will provide an opportunity for all interested parents to learn about the AIDS instruction program, whether or not they wish to request that their child(ren) be exempt from such instruction.)

    1.3.3  After reviewing the acquired immune deficiency syndrome instruction curriculum, the parents may request, in writing, that their child(ren) be exempt from such instruction. All such written requests will be honored.

2.  Reasonable effort will be made by the Building Principal to cause the parents to review the curriculum before requesting exemption; however, parental requests for their child(ren) to be exempt from such instruction will be honored even if the parents refuse to review the curriculum.

**Regulation approved:  December 8, 2004**

