## 6164.2 - Guidance Services

Guidance exists for all students in the school setting with special regard for individual interests, aspirations, and capabilities. It focuses on the individual's personal development and is based on the recognition that an individual is a unique and dynamic personality who is capable of personal growth and self-direction.

In the educational setting, the emphasis of guidance is on a process which is developmental and thus viewed as cumulative in nature. It is a process through which a student is helped to understand his/her potential in relation to goals, academic strengths and weaknesses, and making effective use of his/her abilities. Therefore, increased self-understanding is the ultimate goal of this process which will help to develop the individual's capacity to make his/her own decisions relating to educational, vocational, and personal goals.

Since, in our society, decisions ultimately rest with the individual, guidance should assist him/her in understanding the implications of these decisions. As these decisions are often influenced by variables that act on the individual, through this approach the student increasingly becomes more capable of making free and wise choices both as an individual and as a member of society.

The accelerating pace of change in our society and our world obliges the school continually to reassess its special function. Even its traditional strength as the primary channel through which the student learns of the world has been reshaped by advances in communications media and personal mobility. As the student's exposure to information multiplies, through the media and his own experience, the guidance staff must shoulder an increasing responsibility to help him/her order this information and put it into a perspective from which he/she can derive meaning. Guidance must assume a multifaceted approach in aiding the student in this decision making process.

Objectives:

1.  To assist students with their personal, social and academic growth.

2.  To help students develop an understanding of their interests, abilities, and aspirations.

3.  To help students understand educational and vocational opportunities, requirements, choices, and alternatives available to them.

4.  To help students prepare for future goals through academic planning.

5.  To coordinate the teamwork of teachers, administrators, and support personnel, in order to provide the individual student with maximum assistance in fulfilling his educational needs.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-21 Vocational guidance

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

