## 6171 - Special Education

The Board of Education accepts its legal duties and responsibilities for providing special education programs for the students of the school district.

The Superintendent of Schools is directed to develop a comprehensive plan for compliance with all of the requirements of federal and state law for the education of all individuals with exceptional needs residing in or attending school in the school district.

The Board of Education requests that the plan be in harmony with the school district's financial abilities, with the availability of special facilities needed and the availability of trained and certified personnel.

(cf. 3231 - Medicaid Reimbursement for Special Education Students)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-76a Definitions.

* 10-76b State supervision of special education programs and services.

* 10-76c Receipt and use of money and personal property.

* 10-76d Duties and powers of boards of education to provide special education programs and services. (as amended by PA 97-114)

* 10-76e School construction grant for cooperative regional special education facilities.

* 10-76f Definition of terms used in formula for state aid for special education.

* 10-76g State aid for special education.

* 10-76h Special education hearing and review procedure. Mediation of disputes.

* 10-76i Advisory council for special education.

* 10-76j Five-year plan for special education.

* 10-76k Development of experimental educational programs.

* State Board of Education Regulations.

* 10-76m Auditing claims for special education assistance.

* 10-76a-1 et seq. Definitions.

* 10-76b-1 through 10-76b-4 Supervision and administration.

* 10-76d-1 through 10-76d-19 Conditions of instruction.

* 10-76h-1 through 10-76h-2 Due process.

* 10-76l-1 Program Evaluation.

* 10-145a-24 through 10-145a-31 Special Education (re teacher certification).

* 34 C.F.R. 3000 Assistance to States for Education for Handicapped Children.

* American with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. ยง12101 et seq.

* Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. ยง1400 et seq.

* Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 504, 29 U.S.C. ยง 794.

**Policy adopted:  December 8, 2004**

