## 6172.3 - Home Schooling

### Educational Instruction under Parental Direction

The Board of Education recognizes the right of parents to fulfill their obligation to ensure an education for their children by schooling them at home.  However, the Board believes that formal education in the public schools is highly beneficial both for the child and for the society, and it therefore instructs the school administration to work cooperatively with home-schooling parents.

Specifically, home-schooled children may attend on a part-time basis only where such attendance does not interfere either directly or indirectly with the education of children formally enrolled in the schools on a full time basis.  It is understood that the public schools have no obligation under the law to provide services to children who are being home schooled on a full or part-time basis and that the decision to do so is at the sole discretion of the Board of Education. 

The Board endorses the authority of the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference (C.I.A.C.) to determine eligibility for interscholastic athletics.  Participation in extra-curricular activities shall be governed by the regulations of the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-184 Duties of parents

* 10-184a Special education programs not required for children in home or private schools

* 10-220 Duties of boards of education

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

### Guidelines for Home Instruction

The Killingly Public Schools utilize the following procedures in considering requests for home instruction:

### Full-Time Home Instruction

1.  The parents must file, with the Superintendent of Schools, a State Department of Education Notice of Intent form which outlines basic information about the program to be provided to their child. A Notice of Intent will be effective for up to one school year.

2.  Filing must occur at least 10 days before the start of the home instruction program.

3.  A parent, by filing a Notice of Intent, acknowledges full responsibility for the education of his/her child in accordance with the requirements of state law. Receipt of a Notice of Intent in no way constitutes approval by the school district of the content of effectiveness of a program of home instruction.

4.  If a parent fails to file a Notice of Intent, a certified letter shall be sent to the parent requesting compliance within ten days.

5.  Any continued refusal by the parent to comply with the reasonable request of the school district filing of the Notice of Intent may cause the child to be considered truant.

6.  The school district shall not accept or require a Notice of Intent for any child younger than seven years or older than eighteen years of age.

### Partial Enrollment of Home Schoolers in Killingly Schools

In addition to all of the above cited guidelines, home-schooling parents who wish their child to participate in selected academic programs offered by the Killingly Public Schools shall adhere to the following guidelines:

1.  Home-schooled children who seek partial enrollment shall enroll in the Killingly Public Schools only for the purposes of participating in a designated curricular program and for use in creating class lists, reporting addresses, and emergency contact information. A home-schooled student shall be allowed to participate in a maximum of 2 courses per semester.

2.  Prior to partial enrollment, all home-schooled students shall present evidence to the school nurse of compliance with all relevant state regulations and Board of Education policy regarding immunization and completion of physical examination.

3.  Home-schooled students who are accepted for partial enrollment shall be transported to and from school at their parent's expense. It is the responsibility of the parents and the student to adhere to a daily admission and dismissal procedure as outlined, in writing, by the school's Principal.

4.  Home-schooled students may be enrolled in a course that requires a prerequisite, as outlined in the program of studies, only if the students can demonstrate competency in the prerequisite skills.

5.  Home-schooled students shall be assigned to classes for which they enrolled on a space-available basis. Teacher selection is to be the responsibility of the school's administration.

6.  Participation in field trips shall be permitted only when such trips are integral to completion of a course in which the student is enrolled.

7.  It is the responsibility of the home-schooled student to adhere to the schedule of classes in which he/she is enrolled.  Adherence to adjustments of the class or school schedule by the school authorities is the responsibility of the student and/or his parents.

8.  Home-schooled students shall receive an assessment of their work at the conclusion of each regularly-scheduled marking period. A copy of this record will be made part of the school's permanent record.

9.  Home-schooled students who are accepted for partial enrollment are subject to the discipline and attendance regulations established and published by the school. It is the responsibility of the Principal to distribute a copy of all school regulations to all home-schooled students.

10.  Home-schooled students who seek partial enrollment in the Killingly Public Schools shall be covered for injury or liability under the existing coverage only during the period of their participation in a program supervised by the Killingly Public Schools.

11.  Home-schooled students who are partially enrolled in the Killingly Public Schools may participate in extra-curricular activities on a space-available basis. Athletic participation shall adhere to the regulations established by the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference.

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**

