## 6172.6 - Distance Learning and Virtual/Online Classes

The Killingly Board of Education recognizes the importance of technology in education and the growing popularity and use of online coursework. The Board of Education believes that distance learning and virtual/online courses - provided through Internet or Web-based methods - are appropriate alternative means of independent learning that can enhance, supplement or enrich the existing curriculum. In that regard, and in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes § 10-221a, the Board sanctions the receipt of online course credit to be used toward high school graduation requirements, in accordance with this policy.

Distance learning and virtual/online courses will not be used as the sole medium for instruction in any required subject area. All distance learning and virtual/online courses will be consistent with district instructional goals and aligned with Connecticut’s academic standards, curriculum framework, and assessments. Such courses should provide the opportunity for substantial and timely interactions between and among staff and students.

High school students may earn a maximum of three academic credits to be applied toward graduation requirements by completing approved distance learning and/or virtual/online courses. The grade earned will become part of the student’s official transcript; however, grades earned from distance learning or virtual/online courses will not be included in the student’s grade point average.

### Credit

Credit from a distance learning or virtual/online course may be earned only in the following circumstances:

1. The course is not offered at Killingly High School; or

2. The high school does offer the course, but the course is being taken to replace a failed course; or

3. The high school does offer the course, but the student is unable to take the course due to an unavoidable scheduling conflict.

4. The course may serve as a supplement to extended homebound instruction.

5. Students enrolled in distance learning and/or virtual/online courses must be enrolled in the district and must maintain a minimum of six credits in the regular day program.

6. During any given school year, students may earn a maximum of one credit from a distance learning or virtual/online course.

7. Students must obtain written permission from the principal before enrolling in distance learning or virtual/online courses. Approval of a course shall be based upon the course content and rigor, its length and scope, its method of assessing knowledge acquired by the student, the qualifications of the instructor, and other relevant factors.

8. Distance learning and virtual/online courses must be from an accredited institution.

9. Parents/guardians will bear the financial responsibility for the tuition for distance learning and/or virtual/online courses.

### Pre-approval

To receive credit for online courses to be used toward high school graduation requirements, students must, prior to registering for the course, receive approval from the high school principal or his/her designee. The decision of the principal or his/her designee with regard to online course credit approval is final. Pre-approval for online course credit shall be granted if the online course meets the following requirements:

1. The workload required by the online course is equivalent to that of a similar course taught in a traditional classroom setting;

2. The content is rigorous and aligned with curriculum guidelines approved by the State Board of Education, where appropriate;

3. The course engages students and has interactive components, which may include, but are not limited to, required interactions between students and their teachers, participation in online demonstrations, discussion boards or virtual labs;

4. The program of instruction for such online coursework is planned, ongoing and systematic; and

5. The courses are:
  a. taught by teachers who are certified in Connecticut or another state and have received training on teaching in an online environment, or
  b. offered by institutions of higher education that are accredited by the Board of Regents for Higher Education or regionally accredited; and

6. The principal or his/her designee has determined, in his or her professional judgment, that, given the student’s academic and disciplinary history, the student is appropriately suited to engage in online coursework.

Students applying for permission to take a distance learning or virtual/online course will do the following:

* Complete prerequisites and provide teacher/counselor recommendations to confirm the student possesses the independence and commitment needed to function effectively in an virtual/online learning environment.

* Provide a descriptive outline and course syllabus of the distance learning and/or virtual/online course.

* Obtain the written approval of the principal or his/her designee before enrolling in a distance learning or virtual/online course.

* Adhere to the high school code of conduct to include rules of behavior and consequences for violations of the district internet policy.

* Adhere to the attendance requirement of the district.  The student must provide the school with an official record of the final grade before credit toward graduation is awarded. Only approved courses shall be posted on a student’s transcript.

### Additional Requirements

Only students in grades 9-12 are eligible to receive credit toward high school graduation by taking online courses. Students who have been pre-approved shall receive such credit upon completing the online course and obtaining a passing grade.

Any expense incurred for taking the online course shall be the responsibility of the student and shall not be the responsibility of the Board of Education.

> Legal References:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes § 10-221a.

**Policy added: April 13, 2016**

