## 6172.61 - Credit for Online Courses

The Killingly Board of Education recognizes the importance of technology in education and the growing popularity and use of online coursework. In that regard, and in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes § 10-221a, the Board sanctions the receipt of online course credit to be used toward high school graduation requirements, in accordance with this policy.

### Pre-approval

To receive credit for online courses to be used toward high school graduation requirements, students must, prior to registering for the course, receive approval from the high school principal or his/her designee. The decision of the principal or his/her designee with regard to online course credit approval is final. Pre-approval for online course credit shall be granted if the online course meets the following requirements:

1. The workload required by the online course is equivalent to that of a similar course taught in a traditional classroom setting;

2. The content is rigorous and aligned with curriculum guidelines approved
by the State Board of Education, where appropriate;

3. The course engages students and has interactive components, which may include, but are not limited to, required interactions between students and their teachers, participation in online demonstrations, discussion boards or virtual labs;

4. The program of instruction for such online coursework is planned, ongoing and systematic; and

5. The courses are:
  a. taught by teachers who are certified in Connecticut or another state and have received training on teaching in an online environment, or
  b. offered by institutions of higher education that are accredited by the Board of Regents for Higher Education or regionally accredited; and

6. The principal has determined, in his or her professional judgment, that, given the student’s academic and disciplinary history, the student is appropriately suited to engage in online coursework.

### Additional Requirements

Only students in grades 9-12 are eligible to receive credit toward high school graduation by taking online courses. Students who have been pre-approved shall receive such credit upon completing the online course and obtaining a passing grade.

Any expense incurred for taking the online course shall be the responsibility of the student and shall not be the responsibility of the Board of Education.

> Legal References:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes § 10-221a.

**Approved: March 9, 2016**

