## 7000 - New Construction

### Concepts and Roles in Planning for Educational Facilities

It shall be the policy of the Board of Education to plan for educational facilities.  A Comprehensive Long Range Facilities Plan (CLRFP) shall be maintained as the instrument for determining the need for new facilities or for major facility improvements.  The CLRFP shall be updated annually.  The CLRFP will incorporate local demographics, community use of educational facilities, projected enrollments, local educational philosophies and policies, existing and planned educational programs, existing facilities, and the ability of the local electorate to provide needed facilities.

The policy reflects the responsibility of the Board of Education to plan for education facilities and the local legislative body’s responsibility to raise funding for and to construct needed educational facilities.  This policy governs renovation and construction projects.  Projects which are implemented by the local legislative body and are not maintenance oriented are governed by this policy.

1.  Goals and Objectives

  (1)  Identify an educational need for a new facility or renovation to an existing facility.

  (2)  Plan for a new facility or renovation to an existing facility.

  (3)  Gain public approval for the construction or renovation of a facility.

  (4)  Construct or renovate a facility.

2.  Assumptions

  This policy assumes all educational programs will be housed in spaces that comply with all applicable building codes and regulations.  Further, this policy assumes that spaces provided to educational programs shall not hinder the attainment of educational goals and objectives and that the goal of the Board of Education is to provide facilities with the best possible conditions for attaining educational goals.

3.  Community

  (1)  It is recognized that public educational facilities are constructed primarily for public educational activities, but are owned by the public and will be made available for public use wherever that use does not adversely effect educational activities.  The design of educational facilities shall take into consideration public use and make accommodations for that use wherever practical.  Some of the community uses which shall be considered include recreation, use of facilities for emergency shelters and by non-profit organizations.

  (2)  Community demographic information will be considered.  Information to be considered shall include road maps with existing and planned sidewalks, maps and descriptions of existing and planned industrial and housing changes, population statistics and local and regional planning studies past, present, and future.

4.  Enrollment

  The projection of student enrollment is an essential element of the long range plan.  The CLRFP will be based on present and future enrollments.  However, any projection is based upon assumptions and subject to inherent weaknesses.  Projections will be considered the best estimate at a given point in time.  Therefore, enrollment projections shall be updated annually or when new data becomes available or when assumptions change or prove untrue.

  (1)  The methods that may be used to predict enrollment include cohort survival, students per dwelling unit and/or percentage of total population.

  (2)  Some of the statistics concerning enrollment which will be maintained include the past 5 (five) year enrollment, 5 (five) year predictions, and enrollment summaries by school for past year, present year, and next year.  Other statistics will include non-public school enrollment by grade level and students with identified learning disabilities by district and by grade for each school.  Existing school districting maps and plans to redistrict will be included.

5.  Educational Philosophies and Policies

  To the extent that educational philosophies and policies effect facilities, they will be considered in the development of the district’s CLRFP.

6.  Educational Programs

  Educational facilities must be based on the activity to be housed.  Facilities that do not conform fully hinder fulfillment of the goals and objectives of the programs housed as well as the philosophy and objective of the curriculum.

7.  Facilities

  The CLRFP will consider the capacity of existing facilities and their adequacy to house existing educational programs.

  (1)  The CLRFP will consider individual building inventories consisting of construction dates, renovation dates, floor plans, legal capacity by space, type of construction, listing of educational spaces and handicap access information.

  (2)  Retirement of Buildings

  A building operated by the school district may be retired from use when the Board of Education determines that it is no longer useful to the district and/or is unsuitable to the current needs or projected needs of the district.  The CLRFP shall be one basis for considering the closing of a facility.  Recognizing that the closure of a facility may well be an emotional one, the Board of Education will appoint a committee representing a cross-section of opinion in the school district as well as representing the people in the area served by the facility to study the issue and to recommend alternatives for the Board to consider, including retirement, alternative use, remodeling, continuation in use, or any other recommendations the committee might choose to make.

  When a building is retired and determined to no longer serve an educational purpose it shall be returned to the Town and shall no longer be operated or maintained by the Board of Education.

  (3)  Naming a Facility

  The Board of Education shall establish the need and appropriateness for naming any school unit, which includes all buildings, outdoor and indoor facilities of the school.

  It shall be the general policy to name actual school buildings generically and not for any individual or group, for example, Killingly High School.  Individual outdoor or indoor school facilities may be named for prominent individuals or groups solely at the discretion of the Board of Education.

8.  Finance

  The Town has the responsibility of funding the construction of educational facilities.  The Board of Education recognizes the need to plan new facilities within the Town’s ability to pay.  Therefore, liaison shall be established with the Town when a particular need is determined for new facilities or for improvement to existing facilities.  After a project has been identified an estimate of the cost will be developed and given to the Town for consideration and inclusion in the Town’s long-range Capital Improvement Plan.

  All possible sources of funds that will help defray direct costs to the local taxpayers including, but not limited to, State Department of Education grants and Federal grants will be investigated.

9.  Conclusions

  From the CLRFP, an annual list of facility inadequacy and/or future needs shall be developed and presented to the Board of Education for their consideration.

**Policy Adopted:  December 8, 2004**

