## 7230.2 - Indoor Air Quality

The Board of Education recognizes that the maintenance of acceptable temperature, relative humidity and adequate fresh air ventilation in school buildings is a primary objective in the creation and maintenance of an optimal learning environment.

### Indoor Air Quality in Existing Facilities

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall implement an indoor air quality program that provides for ongoing maintenance and facility reviews, in accordance with all applicable state statutes, necessary for the maintenance and improvement of the indoor air quality of all District facilities.

The District shall report annually, in a manner as required, to the Commissioner of Education on the condition of its facilities, its long range facilities program, and on its air quality program.

Prior to January 1, 2008 and every five (5) years thereafter, for any District facility that has been constructed, extended, renovated or replaced on or after January 1, 2003, the Board of Education shall provide for a uniform inspection and evaluation program of indoor air quality within such buildings, such as the Environmental Protection Agency’s Tools for Indoor Air Quality for Schools Program.

The inspection and evaluation program shall include, but not be limited to, a review, inspection or evaluation of the following:

1.  the heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems;

2.  radon levels in the air and water;

3.  potential for exposure to microbiological airborne particles, including fungi, mold, and bacteria;

4.  chemical compounds of concern to indoor air quality, including volatile organic compounds;

5.  pest infestation, including insects and rodents;

6.  pesticide usage;

7.  the presence and plans for removal of certain hazardous substances identified under federal law;

8.  ventilation systems;

9.  plumbing, including water distribution systems, drainage systems, and fixtures;

10.  moisture incursion (leaks) ;

11.  the facilities’ overall cleanliness;

12.  building structural elements, including roofing, basements, and slabs;

13.  the use of space, particularly in areas designed to be unoccupied; and

14.  the provision of indoor air quality maintenance training for building staff.

Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems shall be maintained in accordance with the prevailing maintenance systems, such as Standard 62. The Board direct the Superintendent or his/her designee to ensure that such systems shall be operated continuously during the hours in which students or school personnel occupy school facilities except during periods of scheduled maintenance or emergency repairs or at other times when it can be demonstrated that the air supply system meets the Standards 62 requirements for air changes per hour.

Records shall be maintained on the maintenance of the District’s heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems for a period of not less than five years. Such records shall be available to the public upon request.

### Indoor Air Quality in New or Renovated Facilities

In order to secure appropriate indoor air quality in District schools, the Board of Education believes that when new facilities are constructed and when existing facilities are renovated, the following requirements shall be specified to the architect or design professional responsible for the construction project:

1.  Adhere to the requirements defining minimum air circulation contained in the State Building Code which apply only when constructing new space.

2.  The building/space meets or exceeds the ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Engineers) 62-1999 standard, “Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality,” which considers chemical, physical and biological contaminants that can effect air quality as referenced by the State Code adopted pursuant to C.G.S. 29-252.

3.  Utilizing the ASHRAE 62-1999 standard, achieve a minimum ventilation rate per occupant of 15 cubic feet per minute (cfm) of outdoor air.

4.  Design and placement of air handling equipment needs to be done in a manner where it is accessible to inspect and maintain the equipment; therefore mechanical rooms are desirable versus exposed rooftop units or units hung above suspended ceilings.

5.  With increased air flow requirements, attention must be given to the potential of air velocity noise within ductwork.

6.  Fresh air intakes must be located, whenever possible, away from all types of vents and exhausts on roofs.

7.  Air intakes and ventilation windows must be sufficiently distant from bus loops and loading docks.

8.  Radon mitigation systems to provide a vapor barrier and protection from under-slab humidity should be a part of new school construction.

9.  Attention must be given to the selection of carpeting, carpet adhesives and synthetic materials which may emit odorous and irritating volatile organic vapors degrading indoor air quality.

10.  Reduce the potential of moisture intrusion through appropriately designed pitched roofs wherever possible.

11.  Consider the economic feasibility of achieving dehumidification through air conditioning.

12.  Install temperature control systems, which monitor temperature and other factors helpful in monitoring and diagnosing heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) systems.

13.  When renovating an occupied building provide for the mechanical control of airborne pollutants associated with the construction process.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-220 Duties of boards of education.
>   * 10-291 Approval of plans and site. Expense limit.
>   * 10-292 Review of final plans by Commissioner of Education. Exceptions; role of local officials.
> * P.A. 03-220 An Act Concerning Indoor Air Quality in Schools.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

