## 4111 - Recruitment and Selection

The Board of Education believes it is especially important that the heterogeneity of population be recognized in the recruitment and assignment of personnel.

The schools shall engage in fair and sound personnel practices in the appointment of all school system employees. The administration shall be responsible for establishing recruitment, selection and appointment procedures in compliance with the Board's affirmative action policy.

The Board of Education directs the Superintendent of Schools to include in the recruitment process, as much as is possible and practical, all persons having a direct responsibility for the supervision of the person to be employed and\/or a responsibility for the functioning of the position. Waiver of this procedure will be allowed when time and circumstances do not permit the implementation of it.

\(cf. [4111.1](/policies/4000/4111-1.md)\/4211.1 - Affirmative Action in Recruitment & Selection\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-151 Employment of teachers. Definitions  Notice and hearing on failure to renew or termination of contract. Appeal
>   * 10-153 Discrimination on account of marital status
>   * 10-155f Residency requirement prohibited
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited
>   * 10-220 Duties of Boards of Education \(as amended by PA 98-252\)
> 
> * Title VII, Civil Rights Act as amended by Title IX Equal Employment Opportunity Act, 1972

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

---

In the employment of teachers and other certified personnel, special consideration is given to professional training, teaching experience, and personal characteristics desirable in good teachers.

Each candidate will:

1. submit an official college transcript to the personnel office.

2. submit a record of teaching and other work experience to the personnel office. Salary increments are based upon years of creditable service.

3. appear, unless unusual hardship prevents, for a personal interview.

4. submit evidence of meeting the certification requirements of the state.


> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-145 Certificate necessary to employment
>   * 10-151 Employment of teachers. Definitions. Notice and hearing on failure to renew or termination of contract. Appeal
>   * 10-153 Discrimination on account of marital status
>   * 10-153a-10-153n; Rights concerning professional organization and negotiations
>   * 10-l55f Residency requirement prohibited
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited
> 
> * Title VII, Civil Rights Act as amended by Title IX, Equal Employment Opportunity Act, 1972
> * PA 94-221 An Act Concerning School Discipline and Security

**Regulation approved:   May 12, 2004**

