## 4111.11 - Affirmative Action: Recruitment and Selection

The Board of Education will provide equal employment opportunities for all persons without regard to race, color, religious creed, age, marital status, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, ancestry, present or past history of mental disorder, mental retardation, pregnancy, or disability, genetic information, or gender identity or expression, except in the case of a bona fide occupational qualification. Sexual harassment shall not be used to influence employment decisions, nor shall decisions be influenced, affected or determined on the basis of membership in or holding of office in an employee association or union.

The Board of Education directs the administration to set as a goal the recruitment, selection and employment of qualified people among racial and ethnic minority groups to the end that the school district's employees will proportionately mirror the racial and ethnic composition of this community.

The Board of Education may request a periodic report from the Superintendent of Schools concerning the extent to which the above-mentioned affirmative action program goals are being achieved.

No advertisement of employment opportunities may by intent or design restrict employment based upon discrimination as defined by law.

\(cf. [0521](/policies/0000/0521.md) - Affirmative Action/Nondiscrimination\)

\(cf. [4111](/policies/4000/4111.md) - Recruitment and Selection\)

> Legal References:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-153 Discrimination on account of marital status.
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.
>   * 46a-81a Discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation
> 
> * Title VII, Civil Rights Act 42 U.S.C. 2000e, et seq. § 504 Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 20 USC § 706 \(7\)\(b\) ADA of 1989.
> * Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000d et seq.
> * Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq.
> * Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 USCS § 1681, et seq.
> * Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. § 621
> * Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. § 12101
> * Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. § 794
> * Title II of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, Pub.L.110 233,
> * Public Act 11-55, An Act Concerning Discrimination.

**Policy adopted:**

* May 12, 2004
* June 4, 2014

