## 4112.6 - Personnel Records

Personnel records shall be maintained securely and confidentially in the central office for all current employees and shall include information customarily kept in personnel files.  Files shall also be maintained for past employees, including years of employment, salaries, and such other basic and essential information as the Superintendent of Schools shall require.

There shall be only one personnel file for each employee, and principals shall not maintain employee files separate from the official employee file in the central office.  

Requests for access to personnel files, except from an employee to see his or her own file, shall be referred to the Superintendent who shall determine whether disclosure of such records would legally constitute invasion of employee privacy.  If the Superintendent believes disclosure is not an invasion of privacy, requested information shall be disclosed, but professional courtesy suggests the employee should be notified of such disclosure.

If the Superintendent determines disclosure would invade employee privacy, the employee/s and collective bargaining representatives if any, shall be notified in writing of the request.  If the Superintendent  does not receive a written objection, from the employee or bargaining representative, within seven business days from receipt of their notification, or if there is no evidence of receipt not later than nine business days from the date the notice was mailed, sent, posted, or otherwise given,  requested records shall be disclosed.  However, if an objection is received in a timely manner on the form prescribed, the Superintendent shall not disclose requested information unless directed to do so by the Freedom of Information Commission.  Notwithstanding an objection filed by an employee’s bargaining representative, the employee may subsequently approve disclosure of records by filing a written notice with the Superintendent.

Employee or bargaining representative objections to disclosure of records shall be made in writing on a form developed by the Superintendent including a signed statement by the employee or bargaining representative, under penalties of false statement, that to the best of respondent’s knowledge, information, and belief, there is good grounds to support the objection and that the objection is not interposed for delay.

Notwithstanding earlier provisions of this policy, personnel evaluations of certified employees, except the Superintendent, are not public records subject to disclosure — unless the employee consents in writing to the release of such records. 

Each employee’s own file shall be available for his or her inspection at reasonable times, and, upon request, employees will be provided a copy of information contained in his or her file.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 1-19b Agency administration. Disclosure of personnel, birth and tax records.

* 1-20a Objection to disclosure of personnel or medical files.

* 1-20b Record of arrest as public record.

* 1-21i(b) Denial of access to public records or meetings.

* 10-151a Access of teacher to supervisory records and reports in personnel file.

* 10-151c Records of teacher performance and evaluation not public records.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

