## 4112.8 - Nepotism

The Board of Education, in order to avoid both the reality and the appearance of conflict of interest in employment, will not appoint a member of the immediate family of a Board member, nor of an administrator, to any permanent employment position in this school system and directs that no person who is a member of the immediate family of a Board member or administrator shall be placed in nomination for any vacant permanent position.

Persons who are employees of the Board on the date that this policy becomes effective shall not be discharged because of this policy, nor shall they be denied reemployment in succeeding years because of it. However, if any person who is a member of the immediate family of a Board member or an administrator resigns or is not re-employed for other reasons, this policy would deny re-employment for such period as the individual has such a family relationship.

For the purposes of this policy, a member of the immediate family means mother, father, grandmother, grandfather, or a grandchild of the Board member or administrator, or of the spouse of the Board member or administrator, and the spouse, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in-law, brother, sister, or any relative living in the immediate household of the Board member or administrator.

A Board member or administrator who has such relationship with any employee of the school system as of the effective date of this policy shall declare such relationship immediately. So far as possible, no administrator shall have supervisorial relationship to any member of his/her immediate family.

A Board member should not vote on any action of the Board which will directly affect a member of the immediate family of the member, unless requested to do so by a majority of the members of the Board of Education, and only after full disclosure of the relationship has been made.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

The following regulations shall govern conflict of interest in the employment of staff:

1.  Persons related by blood or marriage to an employee shall not be appointed to a position that is in a line relationship involving supervision and evaluation of the position or in payroll accounting, auditing, or personnel.

2.  This shall not apply to any person within such relationship or relationships who has been regularly employed by the Board prior to the inception of the relationship, the adoption of this regulation, or a Board member's election.

3.  It is the intent of these rules to avoid any situation where there can arise a conflict of interest either on the part of the member of the Board or a member of the administrative staff.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**

