## 4112.5 - Fingerprinting/Criminal Records Check

All applicants for a school employment position shall be required to disclose whether or not they have ever been convicted of a crime and whether or not criminal charges are pending against them at the time of application. Additionally, all applicants shall be required to submit to fingerprinting and to a state and national criminal history records check at the time of appointment. Failure to comply with the above mandates, failure to disclose prior criminal conviction/convictions and/or other pending criminal charges may result in denial of employment or termination of employment in accordance with law.

1.  Fingerprinting Procedures

  The Superintendent of Schools shall arrange for the fingerprinting of each applicant and shall submit the fingerprinting to the State Department of Public Safety within a maximum of 30 days of employment. A fee for the national criminal history records check may be charged to the applicant and shall not exceed $24.00. The fingerprinting shall be obtained on cards prescribed and supplied by the State Department of Public Safety.

2.  Criminal History Records Check Procedures

  A.  All requests and responses for criminal history records checks, both state and national, shall be made through the Superintendent of Schools. The results of any such criminal history records checks shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed by the Board of Education or the person or persons in charge of employment and shall be subject to privacy protections provided by law.

  B.  Any certified employee hired under the mandates of this section, whose criminal history records check reveals a previously undisclosed criminal conviction, may be terminated in accordance with the guidelines set forth in section 10-151 of the Connecticut General Statutes.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* Section 31-51i Arrest Record on Job Application Form

* Section 10-151 Employment of Teacher. Definitions. Notice and Hearing on Failure to Review or Termination of Contract. Appeal.

* 10-221d Criminal history records checks of school personnel. Fingerprinting. Termination or dismissal. (as amended by PA 01-173

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**
