## 4112.42 - Pre-Employment Drug Screening Test

All prospective bus drivers, food service workers and Family Resource Center staff shall be advised in writing at the time of application that it is the intent of the Board of Education to conduct drug screening at the time of appointment. Prospective employees shall be required to submit to and successfully complete an initial drug screening test as a condition of employment. The drug screening test outlined in this section shall not preclude the Board of Education from administering and conducting similar tests under different conditions in accordance with federal and state laws.

1.  Testing Procedures

  A.  Applicants subject to testing must, prior to testing, sign a consent authorizing the test, authorizing the release of test results to the school department's medical officer, and authorizing the disclosure of the results by said medical officer to the person or persons in charge of employment. Applicants who refuse to submit to such a test shall be denied employment.

  B.  Any applicants who test positive in the pre-employment drug screening test shall be given a copy of the positive test results. Further, the applicant may be denied employment and may be ineligible for employment for 12 months unless the applicant adequately establishes a legal basis for the use of the drug with respect to which the applicant tested positive. Testing procedures shall be in accordance with federal and state law. (CGS Sec. 31-51u).

  C.  The results of any such test shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed by the Board of Education or the person or persons in charge of employment to any person other than any such employee to whom such disclosure is necessary. Additionally, the results shall be maintained along with other employee medical records and shall be subject to the privacy protections provided for by law.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* Sec. 31-51u Drug Testing: Requirements

* Sec. 31-51v Drug Testing: Prospective Employees

* Sec. 31-51w Drug Testing: Observation Prohibited. Privacy of Results

* Sec. 31-51aa Drug Testing: Effect of Collective Bargaining Agreement

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

**Revised:  June 8, 2005**

