## 4112.4 - Physical Examinations

### New Personnel

New bus drivers, food service workers and Family Resource Center staff shall submit to a pre-employment physical examination.

### Employed Personnel

The Superintendent of Schools may require an employee to obtain a physical examination at any time for cause.

### Specific Procedures

1.  Physical examination forms will be supplied by the Superintendent's office, and it is required that they be used in all instances.

2.  Full and complete results of the physical examinations will be maintained in the administering doctor's office. Only a statement attesting to the individual's health and submitted by the examining doctor will be kept on file in the Superintendent's office.

3.  The Superintendent may consider a request that a physical examination be administered by an individual's family physician and the District shall pay that portion of the cost which is equal to the cost of the examination administered by the District physician. The remainder of the cost will be borne by the individual. If the Superintendent believes there is reason to deny such request, (s)he may do so at his/her discretion.

4.  Physical examinations, administered by the District physician, shall be at the expense of the District.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

**Revised:  June 8, 2005**

### Health Examination

All bus drivers, food service workers and Family Resource Center staff upon initial employment shall present evidence of having submitted to a physical examination performed by a doctor of medicine.  The employee shall submit proof of said exam on documents prepared for this purpose, completed and signed by said physician.

The Superintendent may require a medical examination of any employee whenever the Superintendent has grounds to believe that the performance of the employee is adversely affected.

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**

**Revised:  June 8, 2005**

