## 4117.4 - Dismissal/Suspension

### Dismissal

1.  **Non-Tenured Teachers**

  The contract for employment of a teacher who has not attained tenure may be terminated at any time for any of the reasons enumerated below:

  a.  Inefficiency or incompetence

  b.  Insubordination against reasonable rules of the Board of Education

  c.  Moral misconduct

  d.  Disability, as shown by competent medical evidence

  e.  Elimination of the position to which the teacher was appointed or loss of a position to another teacher, in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes 10-151 (d)(5)

  f.  Other due and sufficient cause

  Otherwise, the contract of such teacher shall be continued into the next school year unless such teacher receives a written notice by April 1st in one school year that such contract will not be renewed for the following year. A teacher may request a statement of reason(s) therefore, and the district will furnish such a statement within seven (7) days of the receipt of the request.  The teacher is entitled to a hearing upon written request filed with the Board within twenty (20) days after receipt of notice. The hearing shall be conducted before the Board, or if indicated in such request and if designated by the Board, before an impartial hearing panel established and conducted in accordance with law or if the parties agree, before a single impartial hearing officer. The hearing shall commence within fifteen (15) days of such request unless the parties mutually agree to an extension.

  A non-tenured teacher whose contract has been terminated may appeal only if the reason for termination was either “moral misconduct” or “disability” as shown by competent medical evidence.

  If the reason for non-renewal is the elimination of the position or loss of the position to another teacher, the teacher shall not be entitled to a hearing.

2.  **Tenured Teachers**

  The contract of employment of a teacher who has attained tenure shall be continued from school year to school year, except that it may be terminated at any time for one or more of the following reasons:

  a.  Inefficiency or incompetence

  b.  Insubordination against reasonable rules of the Board of Education

  c.  Moral misconduct

  d.  Disability, as shown by competent medical evidence

  e.  Elimination of the position to which the teacher was appointed or loss of a position to another teacher, in accordance with CGS 10-l5l(d)(5)

  f.  Other due and sufficient cause

Prior to terminating a contract, the Superintendent shall give the teacher concerned a written notice that termination of such teacher is under consideration and, upon written request filed by such teacher with the Superintendent within seven days after receipt of such notice, shall within the next succeeding seven days give such teacher a statement in writing of the reasons therefor.  Within twenty days after receipt of the written notice that contract termination is under consideration, such teacher may file with the Board a written request for a hearing.  Such hearing shall commence within fifteen days after receipt of such request, unless the parties mutually agree to an extension, before the Board of Education or, if indicated in such request or if designated by the Board, before an impartial hearing panel, or if the parties mutually agree, before a single impartial hearing officer chosen by both parties.  If the parties are unable to agree upon the choice of a hearing officer, the hearing shall be held before the Board or panel, as the case may be.  Any extension in the time commencing the hearing may not exceed fifteen days.

Within seventy-five (75) days after receipt of the request for a hearing, the impartial hearing panel, or hearing officer, unless the parties mutually agree to an extension, shall submit findings and recommendation to the Board of Education as to the disposition of the charges against the teacher, and shall send a copy of such findings and recommendation to the teacher. The Board of Education shall give the teacher concerned its written decision within fifteen (15) days after the close of such hearing, and shall send a copy of its decision to the teacher.

Any teacher aggrieved by the decision may appeal within thirty (30) days of such decision to the Superior Court.

> NOTE:   The Board of Education may designate a subcommittee of three (3) or more Board members to conduct tenured or non-tenured teacher termination hearings resulting from reduction in force (RIF).  The subcommittee shall submit written findings and recommendations to the Board for final disposition within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the written recommendation.

### Suspension

Nothing herein shall deprive the Board of Education of the power to suspend a teacher from duty immediately when serious misconduct is charged without prejudice to the rights of the teacher as otherwise provided in CGS 10-151, subsection d.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-151 Employment of teachers Definitions Notice and hearing on failure to renew or termination of contract.  Appeal (as amended by PA 95-58 & 97-247)
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited
> * Shanbrom v. Orange Board of Education, 2 Conn. L. Rpts. 396, 398 (1990)

**Policy adopted:   May 12, 2004**

