## 4117.41 - Suspension

The Board shall use due process and comply with relevant portions of the collective bargaining agreement and all applicable State Statutes when disciplining, suspending and/or dismissing certified employees.

The Board recognizes its statutory authority to suspend teachers (certified personnel) in situations related to contract termination and during investigations into allegation of disobedience or misconduct whenever the employee’s continued presence in his/her position would not be in the best interests of the school system.

The Superintendent is also authorized to suspend a teacher (certified employee) from duty under the following conditions:

1.  During an investigation into allegation of disobedience or misconduct whenever the employee’s continued presence in his/her position is not believed to be in the best interests of the school system.  Such suspension shall be “without prejudice” and with pay during the investigation period and pending a Board hearing to suspend the employee without pay based upon the findings of the investigation.

2.  During an investigation of suspected child abuse by the employee conducted by the Department of Children and Families when evidence of abuse has been established.  Such suspension, as required by statute, shall be with pay.

3.  As a disciplinary measure, without regard to the tenure statute (10-151) for misconduct detrimental to the school system.  Such suspension, to be without pay, is to be part of a disciplinary system that uses verbal reprimand, written reprimand, plan of assistance or suspension depending on the circumstances of each situation.  Prior to implementing such a suspension, the certified employee shall be given an opportunity for a hearing before the Superintendent. (and/or the Board of Education)  Misconduct includes any failure to follow any oral or written directive, order or Board policy or that of any supervisor.  Misconduct also includes any act or failure to act that constitutes a violation or an attempt to violate any law or local ordinance which relates to the employees’ duties.

The Superintendent is authorized to establish regulations designed to implement this policy.

(cf. - 5141.4  Child Abuse and Neglect)

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-151 Teacher Tenure Act

* 17a-101 Protection of children from abuse. Reports required of certain professional persons. When child may be removed from surroundings without court order.

* 17a-102  Report of danger of abuse.

* 17a-106 Cooperation in relation to prevention, identification and treatment of child abuse/neglect.

* PA 96-246 An Act Concerning the Reporting, Investigation and Prosecution of Child Abuse and the Termination of Parental Rights

**Policy adopted:   May 12, 2004**

