## 4118.21 - Academic Freedom

The teacher must be free to think, to express ideas, to organize and arrange elements of lesson design, and to select and employ instructional strategies that support and compliment the curriculum and instructional resources adopted by the District.

Academic freedom, not an absolute, must be exercised within the law and the basic ethical responsibilities of the teaching profession.  Those responsibilities include:

1.  an understanding of our democratic tradition and its methods;

2.  a concern for the welfare, growth, maturity, and development of children;

3.  the method of scholarship; and

4.  application of good taste and judgment in selecting and employing materials and methods of instruction.

(cf. 1220 - Citizens' Advisory Committees)

(cf. 1312 - Public Complaints)

(cf. 5145.2 - Freedom of Speech/Expression)

(cf. 6144 - Controversial Issues)

(cf. 6161 - Equipment, Books, Materials: Provision/Selection)

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 53a-193 through 53a-200
> * Keyishian v. Board of Regents, 395 U.S. 589, 603 (1967)
> * Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U.S. 593 (1972)
> * Pickering v. Board of Education, 391 U.S. 563 (1968)
> * Sterzing v. Fort Bend Independent School District, 376F. Supp. 657 (S.D. Tex 1972)
> * Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U.S. 104 (1972)
> * Miller v. California, 413 U.S. 15 (1973)
> * Amendment to U.S. Constitution, Article I
> * Connecticut Constitution, ARTICLE FIRST, Declaration of Rights, Sections 4,5
> * Academic Freedom Policy (adopted by Connecticut State Board of Education, 9/8/81)

**Policy adopted:   May 12, 2004**

---

1.  Teachers and administrators shall have the right to determine and select which instructional material and methods are to be used in the schools, subject to budgetary consideration and in conformance with adopted curriculum.

2.  The exercise of this right shall be within the framework of good taste and the growth and maturity of children.

3.  Partisan views of teachers, administrators, the public, and/or Board members may not be used to suppress (or promote) instructional materials that are otherwise appropriate (or inappropriate).

4.  The goal in selecting and utilizing instructional materials is the development of children's critical facilities, and of their ability to learn for themselves and make sound judgments; therefore, the selection of materials should be broad rather than narrow, factual rather than dogmatic.

5.  Teachers shall not exclude relevant materials simply because it is unpopular or not widely accepted.

6.  Teachers' personal opinions may be presented provided that the teacher does not use them to indoctrinate students.

7.  Teachers shall not penalize students who disagree with them or who present views which are unpopular and/or not widely accepted.

(cf. 6144 - Controversial Issues)

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**

