## 4118.5 - Employee Use of the District's Computer Systems and Electronic Communications

Computers, computer networks, electronic devices, Internet access, and e-mail are effective and important technological resources.  The Board of Education provides computers, a computer network, including Internet access and an e-mail system, and other electronic devices that access the network such as wireless and/or portable electronic hand-held equipment that can be used for word processing, wireless Internet access, image capture and recording, sound recording, information transmitting and/or receiving, storing, etc. (including, but not limited to, personal laptops, Smartphones, network access devices, Kindles, Nooks, cellular telephones, radios, walkmen, CD players, I-Pads or other tablet computers, walkie-talkies, Blackberries, personal data assistants, I-Phones, Androids and other electronic signaling devices), (referred to collectively as "the computer systems"), in order to enhance both the educational opportunities for our students and the business operations of the district.

These computer systems are business and educational tools.  As such, they are made available to Board employees for business and education related uses.  The Administration shall develop regulations setting forth procedures to be used by the Administration in an effort to ensure that such computer systems are used for appropriate business and education related purposes.

The system administrator and others managing the computer systems may access email or monitor activity on the computer system or electronic devices accessing the computer systems at any time and for any reason or no reason. Typical examples include when there is reason to suspect inappropriate conduct or there is a problem with the computer systems needing correction.  Further, the system administrator and others managing the computer systems can access or monitor activity on the systems despite the use of passwords by individual users, and can bypass such passwords.  In addition, review of emails, messages or information stored on the computer systems, which can be forensically retrieved, includes those messages and/or electronic data sent, posted and/or retrieved using social networking sites, including, but not limited to, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and MySpace.

Incidental personal use of the computer systems may be permitted solely for the purpose of e-mail transmissions and access to the Internet on a limited, occasional basis.  Such incidental personal use of the computer systems, however, is subject to all rules, including monitoring of all such use, as the Superintendent may establish through regulation.  Moreover, any such incidental personal use shall not interfere in any manner with work responsibilities. 

Users should not have any expectation of personal privacy in the use of the computer system or other electronic devices that access the computer system.  Use of the computer system represents an employee's acknowledgement that the employee has read and understands this policy and any applicable regulations in their entirety, including the provisions regarding monitoring and review of computer activity.

> Legal References:
> 
> * Conn. Gen. Stat. § 31-48d
> * Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 53a-182; 53a-183; 53a-250
> * Electronic Communication Privacy Act, 28 U.S.C. §§ 2510 through 2520

**POLICY ADOPTED: JUNE 5, 2013**

---

### ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS REGARDING EMPLOYEE USE OF THE DISTRICT'S COMPUTER SYSTEMS AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

The intent of these administrative regulations is to provide employees with general requirements for utilizing the Killingly Public School's computers, networks and Internet services. The administrative regulations may be supplemented by more specific administrative procedures and rules governing day-to-day management and operation of the computer system.  These rules provide general guidelines and examples of prohibited uses for illustrative purposes but do not attempt to state all required or prohibited activities by users. Employees who have questions regarding whether a particular activity or use is acceptable should seek further guidance from the IT Director.

#### Introduction.

Computers, computer networks, electronic devices, Internet access, and electronic mail are effective and important technological resources.  The Board of Education has installed computers, a computer network, including Internet access and an e-mail system, and may provide electronic devices that access the system, such as personal laptops, Smartphones, I-Pads or other tablet computers, I-Phones, Androids or other mobile or handheld electronic devices, to enhance the educational and business operations of the district.  In these regulations, the computers, computer network, electronic devices, Internet access and e-mail system are referred to collectively as "the computer systems."

These computer systems are expensive to install, own and maintain.  Unfortunately, these computer systems can be misused in a variety of ways, some of which are innocent and others deliberate.  Therefore, in order to maximize the benefits of these technologies to the district, our employees and all our students, this regulation shall govern all use of these computer systems.

#### Monitoring

It is important for all users of these computer systems to understand that the Board of Education, as the owner of the computer systems, reserves the right to monitor the use of the computer systems to ensure that they are being used in accordance with these regulations.  The Board of Education intends to monitor in a limited fashion, but will do so as needed to ensure that the systems are being used appropriately for district-related educational and business purposes and to maximize utilization of the systems for such business and educational purposes.  The Superintendent reserves the right to eliminate personal use of the district's computer systems by any or all employees at any time.

The system administrator and others managing the computer systems may access email or monitor activity on the computer system or electronic devices accessing the computer systems at any time and for any reason or no reason.  Typical examples include when there is reason to suspect inappropriate conduct or there is a problem with the computer systems needing correction.  Further, the system administrator and others managing the computer systems can access or monitor activity on the systems despite the use of passwords by individual users, and can bypass such passwords.  In addition, review of emails, messages or information stored on the computer systems, which can be forensically retrieved, includes those messages and/or electronic data sent, posted and/or retrieved using social networking sites, including, but not limited to, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and MySpace.

#### Why Monitor?

The computer systems are expensive for the Board to install, operate and maintain.  For that reason alone it is necessary to prevent misuse of the computer systems.  However, there are other equally important reasons why the Board intends to monitor the use of these computer systems, reasons that support its efforts to maintain a comfortable and pleasant work environment for all employees.

These computer systems can be used for improper, and even illegal, purposes.  Experience by other operators of such computer systems has shown that they can be used for such wrongful purposes as sexual harassment, intimidation of co-workers, threatening of co-workers, breaches of confidentiality, copyright infringement and the like.

#### Privacy Issues.

Employees must understand that the Board has reserved the right to conduct monitoring of these computer systems and can do so despite the assignment to individual employees of passwords for system security.  Any password systems implemented by the district are designed solely to provide system security from unauthorized users, not to provide privacy to the individual system user.

The system's security aspects, message delete function and personal passwords can be bypassed for monitoring purposes.

Therefore, employees must be aware that they should not have any expectation of personal privacy in the use of these computer systems.  This provision applies to any and all uses of the district's computer systems and electronic devices that access same, including any incidental personal use permitted in accordance with these regulations.

Use of the computer system represents an employee's acknowledgement that the employee has read and understands these regulations and any applicable policy in their entirety, including the provisions regarding monitoring and review of computer activity.

A.  Access to School Computers, Networks and Internet Services

  The level of access that employees have to school unit computers, networks and Internet services is based upon specific employee job requirements and needs.

B.  Acceptable Use

  These computer systems are business and educational tools.  As such, they are being made available to employees of the district for district-related educational and business purposes.  All users of the computer systems must restrict themselves to appropriate district-related educational and business purposes.  Incidental personal use of the computer systems may be permitted solely for the purpose of e-mail transmissions and similar communications, including access to the Internet on a limited, occasional basis.  Such incidental personal use of the computer systems is subject to all rules, including monitoring of all such use, set out in these regulations.  Moreover, any such incidental personal use shall not interfere in any manner with work responsibilities.

C.  Prohibited Use

  The employee is responsible for his/her actions and activities involving school computers, networks and Internet services for his/her computer files, passwords and accounts. General examples of unacceptable uses which are expressly prohibited include, but are not limited to, the following:

  1.  Any use that is illegal or in violation of Board policies, including harassing, discriminatory or threatening communications and behavior, violations of copyright laws, etc.;

  2.  Sending any form of slanderous, harassing, threatening, or intimidating message, at any time, to any person (such communications may also be a crime);

  3.  Transmission or receipt of inappropriate e-mail communications or accessing inappropriate information on the Internet, including vulgar, lewd or obscene words or pictures, or materials that are pornographic, sexually explicit or sexually suggestive;

  4.  Sending any message that breaches the Board of Education's confidentiality requirements, including the confidentiality rights of students;

  5.  Any inappropriate communications with students or minors;

  6.  Sending any copyrighted material over the system;

  7.  Any use for private financial gain, or commercial, advertising or solicitation purposes;

  8.  Any use as a forum for communicating by e-mail or any other medium with other school users or outside parties to solicit, proselytize, advocate or communicate the views of an individual or non-school-sponsored organization; to solicit membership in or support of any non-school-sponsored organization; or to raise funds for any non-school-sponsored purpose, whether for-profit for not-for-profit. No employee shall knowingly provide school e-mail addresses to outside parties whose intent is to communicate with school employees, students and/or their families for non-school purposes. Employees who are uncertain as to whether particular activities are acceptable should seek further guidance from the building principal or appropriate administrator.

  9.  Any communication that represents personal views as those of the Killingly Public Schools or that could be misinterpreted as such;

  10.  Downloading and/or installing software or applications in violation of the district's licensure agreement(s) and/or without permission from the IT Coordinator (any software or application must meet the guidelines of those policies that define acceptability);

  11.  Providing and/or installing any software applications licensed exclusively to Killingly Public Schools for home use unless the applications are supplied by the IT Department for this purpose;

  12.  Connecting any computer, laptop, or peripheral device (including PDAs) to the district's network without the knowledge of and permission from the IT Coordinator (any network device must comply with compatibility and safety standards);

  13.  Gaining or seeking to gain unauthorized access to computer systems;

  14.  Opening or forwarding any e-mail attachments (executable files) from unknown sources that may contain viruses, forwarding email messages regarded as "spam", or forwarding a mail message the sender has clearly marked "Do Not Forward."

  15.  Any malicious use or disruption of district computers, networks and Internet services or breach of security features, including intentional or unintentional introduction of viruses through infected devices or files;

  16.  Any misuse or damage to the district's computer equipment;

  17.  Misuse of the computer passwords or accounts (employee or other users);

  18.  Leaving any computer logged on to the network unattended;

  19.  Failing to report a known breach of computer security to the system administrator;

  20.  Any communications that are in violation of generally accepted rules of network etiquette and/or professional conduct;

  21.  Using school computers, networks and Internet services after such access has been denied or revoked;

  22.  Any attempt to delete, erase or otherwise conceal any information stored on a school computer that violates these rules;

  23.  Using social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and LinkedIn in a manner that disrupts or undermines the effective operation of the school district; is used to engage in harassing, defamatory, obscene, abusive, discriminatory or threatening or similarly inappropriate communications; creates a hostile work environment; breaches confidentiality obligations of school district employees; or violates the law, Board policies and/or the other school rules and regulations.]

  24.  In addition, if a particular behavior or activity is generally prohibited by law and/or Board of Education policy, use of these computer systems for the purpose of carrying out such activity and/or behavior is also prohibited.  Illegal uses of the district's computers will also result in referral to law enforcement authorities.

D.  No Expectation of Privacy

  Killingly Public Schools retain control, custody and supervision of all computers, networks and Internet services owned or leased by the district. The district reserves the right to monitor all computer and Internet activity by employees and other system users. Employees have no expectation of privacy in their use of school computers, including e-mail messages and stored files. The district reserves the right to bypass individual user passwords at any time to access information in an employee's absence and/or to monitor the use of such systems by employees.

E.  Electronic Mail

  Killingly Public Schools retains the right to review, store and disclose all information sent over the district's electronic mail system for any legally permissible reason, including but not limited to determining whether the information is a public record, whether it contains information discoverable in litigation and to access district information in the employee's absence. Employees should be aware that e-mail sent or received by the Board, the district or the district's employees may be considered a public record subject to public disclosure or inspection. Employees should also be aware that e-mail messages may be retrieved even if they have been deleted, and that statements made in e-mail communication can form the basis of various legal claims against the individual author or the district.

F.  Confidentiality of Information

  Employees are expected to use appropriate judgment and caution in communications concerning students and staff to ensure that personally identifiable information remains confidential.

G.  Staff Responsibilities to Students

  Teachers, staff members and volunteers who utilize school computers for instructional purposes with students have a duty of care to supervise such use. Teachers, staff members and volunteers are expected to be familiar with the district's policies and rules concerning student computer and Internet use and to enforce them. When, in the course of their duties, employees, or volunteers become aware of student violation, they are expected to stop the activity and inform the building principal [or other appropriate administrator].

H.  Electronic Communications

  The Board expects that all employees will comply with all applicable Board policies and standards of professional conduct when engaging in any form of electronic communication, including texting, using the district's computer system, or through the use of any electronic device or mobile device owned, leased, or used by the Board.  As with any form of communication, the Board expects district personnel to exercise caution and appropriate judgment when using electronic communications with students, colleagues and other individuals in the context of fulfilling an employee's job-related responsibilities.

I.  Compliance with Related Policies

  Employees are expected to read and comply with any additional policies that relate to the use of the district's computers and network, including but not limited to the regulations specific to hardware and software defined in Policy 6162.7 - Educational Software Licensing and Use, and Policy 3532.1 - Acquisition and Updating of Technology.

J.  Compensation for Losses, Costs and/or Damages

  The employee shall be responsible for any losses, costs or damages incurred by the school unit related to violations of policy 4118.5/4218.5 and/or these regulations.

K.  District Assumes No Responsibility for Unauthorized Charges, Costs or Illegal Use

  Killingly Public Schools assumes no responsibility for any unauthorized charges made by employees including but not limited to credit card charges, subscriptions, long distance telephone charges, equipment and line costs, or for any illegal use of its computers such as copyright violations.

L.  Employee Acknowledgment Required

  Each employee authorized to access the school unit's computers, networks and Internet services is required to sign an acknowledgment form stating that they have read Policies 4118.5/4218.4 and 4118.5/4218.5 and their regulations (Appendix A). The acknowledgment form will be retained in the employee's personnel file.

M.  Disciplinary Action.

  Misuse of these computer systems will not be tolerated and will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.  Because no two situations are identical, the Board reserves the right to determine the appropriate discipline for any particular set of circumstances.

> Legal References: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 53A-182B Harassment in the first degree.
> * The Freedom of Information Act
> * P.A. 98-142 An Act Requiring Notice to Employees of Electronic Monitoring by Employers.

**Regulation approved:  November 10, 2004**

**Revised: JUNE 5, 2013**

---

### Guidelines for use of Killingly Public Schools Computer Resources

Computers, computer networks, electronic devices, Internet access, and e-mail are effective and important technological resources.  The Board of Education provides computers, a computer network, including Internet access and an e-mail system, and other electronic devices that access the network such as wireless and/or portable electronic hand-held equipment that can be used for word processing, wireless Internet access, image capture and recording, sound recording, information transmitting and/or receiving, storing, etc. (including, but not limited to, personal laptops, Smartphones, network access devices, Kindles, Nooks, cellular telephones, radios, walkmen, CD players, I-Pads or other tablet computers, walkie-talkies, Blackberries, personal data assistants, I-Phones, Androids and other electronic signaling devices), (referred to collectively as "the computer systems"), in order to enhance both the educational opportunities for our students and the business operations of the district.

Killingly Public Schools (KPS) provides these computer systems for teachers as primary resources to assist you in performing your professional responsibilities. These resources are intended for school-related business including but not limited to communication, teaching, learning, research and productivity.  Use for personal purposes should be in accordance with the Board of Education's Policy Regarding Employee Use of the District's Computer Systems and Electronic Communications, which is incorporated into these guidelines by reference.  The text of this policy is accessible online at the following address: http://www.killinglyschools.org/Page/3278

Computers and other hardware devices are provided for your use but remain the property of KPS.  The software applications that have been installed on these devices are also the property of KPS.  These applications provide functionality for your use in carrying out the activities and responsibilities of your professional position, and also for the remote administration, maintenance and protection of the device.  This software must not be altered or removed.  KPS ownership of these devices also extends to any files and data contained on the device, and therefore this content is subject to review and monitoring by KPS Human Resources and Information Technology departments.

Your responsibilities:

*  Use your computer with care.  It is intended to last 5 years.

*  Employees must maintain the confidentiality of all personally identifiable information.

*  When transporting a laptop or other portable device make sure that it is adequately protected within an appropriate case or bag.

*  Do not expose your laptop or portable device to extreme temperatures or moisture (such as leaving a computer in a vehicle overnight).

*  Do not leave your laptop or portable device in plain sight in a public place where it may be stolen.

*  If your laptop or portable device is lost or stolen you must report the loss to the KPS IT department immediately.

*  Apply any and all anti-virus signature and other security patch updates as soon as you are prompted to do so.

*  Do not install software on your computer or portable device that KPS does not have a license to install.

*  Laptops and portable devices are configured for use on the KPS wireless networks.  Any connections to other networks either at home or in public locations will have to be configured and supported by you.

*  Do not change account settings on any computer.  For maintenance and management purposes all accounts that are in the user control panels must remain as they have been configured.

*  Do not remove any tags or labels from your computer.  They are needed for tracking purposes.  If a tag or label comes off or becomes illegible, you must deliver the unit to the KPS IT Department for retagging.

*  Use sound security practices (i.e., don't share your password, close the lid when you leave your computer, etc.), report any security problems you notice, and respect the privacy of others by viewing only your own documents and mail.

*  It is your responsibility to keep backup copies of all of your files in order to prevent loss. Backup can be accomplished using USB drives, portable external hard drives, district-provided network folders, or internet-based file storage services such as iCloud.  All backup copies must be kept confidential.

*  When instructed by the KPS IT Department, you must deliver your computer or portable device for a period of time sufficient to perform repairs, updates or other maintenance.  This includes turning devices in at the end of the school year when broad based upgrades are scheduled during the summer.

*  Upon leaving KPS, a departing employee must return their assigned laptop and/or portable device to KPS IT Department prior to departure.

Killingly IT responsibilities:

*  With the exception of damage resulting from negligence or abuse we will maintain and repair the device as necessary during the full duration of its 5-year life cycle.

*  We will maintain the warranty on your computer for a minimum of 3 years.

*  We will install appropriate software to secure and protect your computer or portable device.  Please do not install any additional antivirus or security software.

*  We will research and provide solutions and services to help you use and protect your computer or portable device and its contents.

*  We will perform routine backups of any server-based network folders that have been provided for your use.

I have read and understand these guidelines for use of computer resources.

```
__________________________________               ______________________________

Signature                                                                     Date

__________________________________

Printed Name
```

