## 4118.234 - Psychotropic Drug Use

### Recommendations and Refusals of the Use of Psychotropic Drugs by Students

The Board of Education believes that the use of psychotropic drugs by students is a personal decision to be made by the parent(s) and/or guardian(s) of students in consultation with the student’s medical practitioner.  Therefore, it is the policy of the Board of Education to prohibit any school personnel from recommending the use of psychotropic drugs for any child. For purposes of this policy, the term “recommend” shall mean to directly or indirectly suggest that a child use psychotropic drugs. Psychotropic drugs are defined as prescription medications for behavioral or social-emotional concerns, such as attentional deficits, impulsivity, anxiety, depression and thought disorders and includes, but is not limited to stimulant medications and anti-depressants.

This policy does not prohibit school health or mental health personnel, including school nurses, nurse practitioners, the District’s Medical Advisor, School psychologists, school social workers, school counselors and the District’s Director of Special Education, in collaboration with the PPT process and Principal from recommending that a child be evaluated by an appropriate medical practitioner.  Should such medical practitioner wish to discuss the recommendations, upon consent of the student’s parent(s) or guardian(s), this policy would not prohibit such medical staff from such discussion(s).

The District shall follow procedures for identification, evaluation, placement and delivery of services to children with disabilities or suspected disabilities provided in state and federal statutes that govern special education.

The Board recognizes that the refusal of a parent or other person having control of a child to administer or consent to the administration of any psychotropic drug to the child shall not, in and of itself, constitute grounds for the Department of Children and Families (DCF) to take such child into custody or for any court of competent jurisdiction to order that such child be taken into custody by the Department, unless such refusal causes such child to be neglected or abused, as defined in C.G.S. 46b-120.

The Superintendent of Schools or his/her designee shall promulgate this policy to district staff and parents/guardians of students annually and upon the registration of new students.

(cf. 5141.4 - Reporting of Child Abuse and Neglect)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-212b  Policies prohibiting the recommendation of psychotropic drugs by school personnel. (as amended by PA 03-211)

* 46b-120. Definitions

* 10-76a Definitions.  (as amended by PA 00-48)

* 10-76b State supervision of special education programs and services.

* 10-76d Duties and powers of boards of education to provide special education programs and services. (as amended by PA 97-114 and PA 00-48)

* 10-76h Special education hearing and review procedure. Mediation of disputes. (as amended by PA 00-48)

* State Board of Education Regulations.

* 34 C.F.R. 3000 Assistance to States for Education for Handicapped Children.

* American with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. §12101 et seq.

* Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. §1400 et seq.

* Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 504, 29 U.S.C. § 794.

**Policy adopted:  October 10, 2001**

**Policy revised:  May 12, 2004**

### Psychotropic Drug Use

In order to properly implement the Board policy prohibiting school personnel from recommending the use of psychotropic drugs for any child, the following administrative regulations are hereby established:

1.  Psychotropic drugs are defined as prescription medications for behavioral or social-emotional concerns, such as attention deficits, impulsivity, anxiety, depression and thought disorders.

2.  Psychotropic drugs include, but are not limited to, Ritalin, Adderal, Dexedrine and other stimulant medication, and anti-depressants.

3.  All school personnel, including teachers and administrators are prohibited from any communications, both oral and written, to the parents and/or guardians of a child in which the use of psychotropic drugs is recommended.

4.  School health or mental health personnel which includes school nurses or nurse practitioners, the District Medical Advisor, school psychologists, school social workers, and school counselors is permitted to discuss with parents and/or guardians of a child the advisability of a medical evaluation by an appropriate medical practitioner when there are behaviors or concerns that may be indicative of medication considerations.

5.  School personnel, through the Planning and Placement Team referral process, shall communicate to the school medical staff about a child’s behavior that may indicate the need for an evaluation.

6.  The Planning and Placement Team (PPT) has the authority and responsibility to recommend a medical evaluation as part of an initial evaluation or reevaluation as needed to determine a child’s eligibility for special education and related services, or educational needs for a child’s individualized education program (IEP).

7.  As required, the District may seek remedy through the due process provisions allowed under the Individuals with Disabilities Educational Act (IDEA) if a parent and/or guardian refuses consent for a reevaluation.

8.  Appropriate medical practitioners, such as a psychiatric consultant or physician, with whom the District contracts for services to students or to whom the District makes a referral for an evaluation may recommend such medications.

9.  School personnel may consult with the medical practitioner performing the evaluation with the informed consent of the parent or guardian of the child. The purposes of such communication include the following:

  a.  Conveying concerns or observations of a child, both prior to and following a medical evaluation;

  b.  Requesting health records and other educationally relevant medical evaluations;

  c.  Providing school records to medical practitioners upon request;

10.  The Department of Children and Families (DCF) is limited by this legislation to take a child into custody solely on the refusal of a parent or guardian to administer or consent to the administration of any psychotropic drug. However, a PPT meeting may be convened if the child is eligible or may be eligible for special education or making a referral to the Department of Children and Families if there are concerns about a child’s safety and possible abuse or neglect.

(cf. 5141.4 - Reporting of Child Abuse and Neglect)

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**
