## 4122.1 - Internship in School Administration and Supervision

An administrative intern is defined as an administrator trainee, an observer, or a prospective educational leader. The placement of such administrative interns in our schools is to be encouraged.

An internship in school administration and supervision has as its basic purpose to provide prospective educational leaders with appropriate experiences, skills and competencies—cognitive affective, technical. The process of developing these skills and competencies may serve as a guide for the program's activities of the potential educational leader in their on-going professional development.

A.  General Objectives:

  1.  To develop personal competencies needed for an educational leader.

  2.  To develop the competencies needed to devise, maintain and evaluate curricula appropriate for students.

  3.  To develop the competencies needed to organize, supervise and evaluate educational units,

  4.  To develop the competencies needed to select, develop and evaluate personnel.

  5.  To develop the competencies needed to provide effective and efficient management of educational resources and programs.

  6.  To develop the competencies needed to identify and respond to community needs.

  7.  To develop the competencies specifically called for in the internship position(s) in school administration and supervision.

B.  Procedures:

  1.  Administrative intern vacancies shall be filled in the following manner:

  a.  Teachers employed by the school system, and who are certifiable in school administration;

  b.  University students not employed by the school system, and who are in approved university programs of school administration, and seek a field experience; or

  c.  Other special circumstances as approved by the Superintendent, who shall inform the Board of Education.

C.  Duration of the Internship

  1.  Teachers, employed by the school system, shall be provided with released time not to exceed the equivalent of two periods daily.

  2.  University students, not employed by the school system, will be governed in the length and timing of their internship in accordance with university requirement, subject to the approval of the Superintendent of Schools.

D.  Monetary Compensation:

  1.  None; unless otherwise stipulated and specifically approved by the Board of Education on the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

