## 4131.6 - Staff Development

### Staff Technology Competencies

Purpose:

Killingly Public Schools has designed, deployed, and successfully maintains a secure, high-speed wide area network environment that is accessed by over 3000 users.  The systems software packages, user productivity applications, and Internet are an integral part of the daily operations that enable the District to effectively participate in a world increasingly dependent on technology. To maintain effective Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) of these resources and for technology to have a positive impact on student instruction and achievement, it is important that our instructional staff demonstrate basic technology competencies and integration strategies as a part of the daily discharge of their duties.

Definition:

All instructional staff will demonstrate appropriate proficiencies based upon the Killingly Staff Technology Competencies (“KSTC”) manual.  Killingly Public Schools Information Technology Communication (ITC) specialists will provide appropriate assessment, categorization, and training according to the skills competencies approved by the KPS Board of Education.  Staff demonstrating basic proficiencies will be certified as meeting the KSTC.  Staff demonstrating Advanced Level Proficiency will be eligible for district waiver of Technology CEU certification requirements.  Instructional staff is also required to demonstrate competency in planning and designing effective learning environments and experiences supported by technology.  Staff members who successfully complete the yearly Technology Integration requirement may be eligible to earn Technology CEUs for this activity.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

#### Assessment

All instructional staff will be evaluated based upon demonstration of Proficiency Level Performance Indicators for each Competency Strand, according to the requirements designated in the "Categorization" section of this policy. Under the direction of the Assistant Superintendent, the ITC staff will develop and administer basic assessments for the following strands: I. "System Software", II. "System and Network Concepts", and, IV. "AUP". Staff will be required to complete an online assessment for Strand III. "User/Productivity Applications". The Assistant Superintendent and the ITC Integration and Training Specialists will conduct ongoing, yearly assessments for Strand V. "Technology Integration" through the review and evaluation of the ADI form for the design of a "Technology Enhanced" Unit of Study.

#### Training and Staff Development

In order to ensure that the instructional staff is able to successfully meet the mandatory technology competencies, a variety of training opportunities will be available throughout the school year and summer.  Killingly Public Schools ITC specialists will provide and/or arrange for professional development workshops, one-on-one mentoring, access to online and distance learning applications, and peer assistance, both during and after school hours. Staff is encouraged to take advantage of any and all training resources for basic skills development and technology integration/curriculum development.

#### Time Frame/Duration

All instructional staff will be expected to complete Proficiency Level certification for each Technology Competency Standard within the time frame specified in the table below, from the date of the adoption of this policy. New staff members must complete Proficiency Level certification for each Technology Competency Standard within the time frame specified in the table below. All staff will plan to submit an Assessment Driven Instruction ("ADI") "Technology Enhanced" Unit of Study Form for approval and implementation beginning Spring Semester of 2006, and thereafter, once on a continued yearly basis.

Current Staff (as of June 30, 2004):

| Standard | Applicable Time Frames |
| -- | -- |
| I.  Systems Software | January 2005 |
| II.  System and Network Concepts | September 2005 |
| III.  User/Productivity Applications | June 2006 |
| IV.  AUP | January 2005 |

New Hires (as of July 1, 2004):

| Standard | Applicable Time Frames |
| -- | -- |
| I.  Systems Software | January 2005 or thirty days from date of hire (after 1/05) |
| II.  System and Network Concepts | September 2005 or 1 year from date of hire (after 9/05) |
| III.  User/Productivity Applications | June 2006 or 2 years from date of hire (after 6/06 |
| IV.  AUP | January 2005 or 30 days from date of hire (after 1/05) |

Categorization:

1.  Expectations for demonstrating basic proficiency are as follows:

  | Competency | Strand | Staff Grade Level |
  | -- | -- | -- |
  | I.A. | Grading & Attendance | 5-12 |
  | I.B. | Discipline System | 9-12 |
  | I.C. | K-4 Report Card | K-4 |
  | I.D. | Plagiarism Software | 9-12 |
  | I.E. | Email/WebMail | K-12 |
  | I.F. | KPS Portal | K-8 (limited); 9-12 |
  | II.A. | File & Print | K-12 |
  | II.B. | Shared Folders | K-12 |
  | II.C. | Drives | K-12 |
  | II.D. | Hardware | K-12 |
  | III.A. | Word Processing | K-12 |
  | III.B. | Spreadsheet | K-12 |

1.  Expectations for demonstrating basic proficiency are as follows:

  | Competency | Strand | Staff Grade Level |
  | -- | -- | -- |
  | III.C. | Presentation | K-12 |
  | III.D. | Internet | K-12 |
  | IV.A. | Ethics | K-12 |
  | IV.B | Copyright | K-12 |
  | IV.C | Security | K-12 |
  | V. | Technology Integration | K-12 |

2.  Expectations for demonstrating Advanced Level proficiency are as follows: (refer to the KSTC manual for specific performance indicators):

  | Competency | Strand | Staff Grade Level |
  | -- | -- | -- |
  | I.A. | Grading & Attendance | 5-8 |
  | I.B. | Discipline System | 9-12 |
  | I.C. | K-4 Report Card | K-4 |
  | I.D. | Plagiarism Software | 9-12 |
  | I.E. | Email/WebMail | K-12 |
  | I.F. | KPS Portal | K-8 (limited); 9-12 |
  | II.A. | File & Print | K-12 |
  | II.B. | Shared Folders | K-12 |
  | II.C. | Drives | K-12 |
  | II.D. | Hardware | K-12 |
  | III.A. | Word Processing | K-12 |
  | III.B. | Spreadsheet | K-12 |
  | III.C. | Multimedia | K-12 |
  | III.D. | Database | 5-12 |
  | III.E. | Internet | K-12 |

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

