## 4131.5 - Continuing Education Units (CEUs)

In accordance with Section 10-145b of the Connecticut General Statutes, the Killingly Public Schools will make available, annually, at no cost to its certified employees no fewer than eighteen (18) hours of professional development activities for continuing education credit. Such activities may be made available by the Board of Education directly, through arrangement with any continuing education provider approved by the State Board of Education or through the approval of CEU Equivalent activities provided by the district.

The minimum annual requirement of eighteen (18) hours of district-provided professional development activities may be offered in a variety of ways, not just through workshops or presentations. These include structured, planned activities in which educators are problem-solving, experimenting, developing curriculum, and interacting with colleagues around teaching and learning.

Opportunities shall be provided for educators to receive district-provided professional development which fulfills the special requirement for certified educators.

The Killingly Board of Education may offer additional professional development activities to their educators, but for which CEUs should not be granted.

All learning experiences for which CEUs are awarded should enrich or improve the skills, knowledge and abilities of educators to improve student learning.

Learning experiences should have clear and concise written statements of intended learning outcomes. Professional development activities should provide information, strategies or applications designed to enhance the capabilities of educators to improve student learning.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-145b Teaching certificates (as amended by PA 01-173)

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

