## 4135.3 - Negotiation/Consultation

The Board of Education will construe the scope of negotiations as stated in CGS. Section 10-153 strictly, and will, therefore, consider any organizational request which clearly relates to salaries, hours, and other conditions of employment represented by the organization, and will not negotiate any request which does not so relate. (As defined by law, "hours" includes all issues of time except the length and scheduling of the student school day and year and the length and number of parent teacher conferences.)  In case of dispute as to whether a particular topic is or is not within the scope of negotiations, the decision of the state labor Board on that topic will be considered binding, but until such decision is made by the state labor board, the Board of Education will not negotiate any item which it considers to be outside the general topic "salaries, hours, and other conditions of employment."

The Board of Education must meet and confer with the Board of Finance within thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of negotiations. A member of said fiscal authority shall be invited to attend negotiating sessions and must provide any fiscal information requested by the Board of Education.

Negotiations must start by the 210th day prior to the budget submission date. Procedures for filing signed negotiated contracts, their acceptance, or appeal shall be according to law.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-153a Rights concerning professional organization and negotiations. Annual service fees negotiable item

* 10-153d Meeting between Board of Education and fiscal authority required. Duty to negotiate. Procedure if legislative body rejects contract

* 10-153e Strikes prohibited. Interference with the exercise of employees' rights prohibited. Hearing before state Board of labor relations. Appeal. Penalty [subsection (d) - "to negotiate in good faith'']

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**
