## 4135 - Organizations/Units

### Teacher-Administrator-Board of Education Relationships

Recognizing that providing a high quality education for children is the paramount aim of this school system, and good morale in the teaching staff is necessary for the best education of the children, the Board of Education encourages the participation of staff members in the activities of their professional organizations to exercise their rights and responsibilities within the spirit and letter of the law. The Board of Education also recognizes the following roles and responsibilities that are clearly established by law:

1.  The Board of Education, under law, has the final responsibility of establishing policies for the school system.

2.  The Superintendent and staff have the responsibility of carrying out the policies established.

3.  The certified teaching personnel have the ultimate responsibility for providing excellent education in the classroom.

### Attainment of Goals

Attainment of the goals of the educational program conducted in the schools of the district requires mutual understanding and cooperation among the Board of Education, the Superintendent and administrative staff, the certified personnel, the non-certified personnel and other citizens of the community. To this end, free and open exchange of views is desirable, proper and necessary.

### Teachers and Teachers' Organization

It is recognized that teachers have the right to join, or to refrain from joining, any organization for their professional or economic improvement and for the advancement of public education, but that membership in any organization shall not be required as a condition of employment of a teacher in the district.

### Employee Organizations

All employees are free to join or not to join employee organizations. Decisions affecting the individual employee are made without regard to membership or non-membership in such organizations. Each employee is entitled to his/her individual legal or ethical rights and privileges.

Employees shall not be interfered with, intimidated, restrained, coerced or discriminated against, either by the school district or by employee organizations.  They shall have the right to participate through representatives of their own choosing in the presentation of their views to the Board of Education.

### Policy Development and Review

The Superintendent is directed to consult with appropriate personnel and employee organizations in suggesting and establishing the desired policies and regulations relating to Board of Education teacher-administrator relationships and other matters as provided by law.

The Board of Education will annually review these policies and will consider suggested revisions or additions which will improve these relationships and promote the educational welfare of the children attending the schools of the district.

### Bargaining Units

Unit clarification petitions concerning the appropriate composition of an existing bargaining unit shall be filed with the Commissioner of Education.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-153a Rights concerning professional organization and negotiations.
>   * 10-153b Selection of teachers' representatives.
>   * 10-153c Disputes as to elections.
>   * 10-153e Strikes prohibited. Interference with the exercise of employees' rights prohibited. Hearing before the state board of labor relations. Appeal. Penalty
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

