## 4147.21 - "Fifth Disease" - Parvo Virus B-19

In the event that two or more cases are identified in any one school, the following procedure shall be implemented.

1.  All pregnant personnel are to be identified.

2.  All pregnant personnel shall be counseled on a one to one basis.

  In counseling the following statement by the American Academy of Pediatrics should be involved in the discussion.

  AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS COMMITTEE ON INFECTIOUS DISEASES PEDIATRICS VOL. 85 NO.10 JANUARY, 1990

  Women who are exposed to children at work (such as teachers or day care workers) or at home are at increased risk of infection with parvo virus B19 (The virus which causes fifth disease).  However, because of widespread inapparent infection in both adults and children, all women are at some risk of exposure, particularly those women with school aged children.  In view of the high prevalence of parvo virus B19, the low risk of ill effect to the fetus, and the fact that avoidance of child care or teaching can only reduce, but not eliminate, the risk of infection, a routine policy of exclusion of pregnant women form the work place where erythema infectiiosum is occurring is not recommended.  However, pregnant health care workers should not care for patients with aplastic crisis, who may be highly contagious.  Eventually, when 1gG testing for parvo virus B19 antibody is widely available, women at increased risk may be able to have their susceptibility determined.

  Transmission of infection can be lessened by routine hygienic practices for control of respiratory secretions, which include hand washing and the disposal of facial tissues containing secretions.

  The risk of fetal death to a women exposed to parvo virus B19 occupationally would be expected to be much less than 1%.

3.  All personnel will be informed during this counseling session to obtain the advise of their physician regarding the procedure that they should follow.  Personnel should report this procedure to the School Nurse - AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.  It is recommended that the physician have the personnel tested for immunity to the parvo-virus B19.  The result of this testing should influence the physician's recommendation concerning the necessity for exclusion from the class room.

  Parvo-virus B19 testing is now available at the Blood Bank at Yale New Haven Hospital.  Contact Dr. Bove at 785-2442 or Ms. Weirich at 785-2443.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

