## 4147 - Safety

It is the policy of the Board of Education to establish and maintain a working environment for all employees that is safe and free from recognized hazards that are likely to cause unreasonable risks of injury to employees.  To this end, reasonable efforts will be made to provide and maintain a safe and healthy workplace, safe equipment, and proper materials and to establish and insist upon safe methods and practices at all times.

Accidents which result in injury to employees (or others), damage property and equipment cause needless suffering, inconvenience and expense.

It is a responsibility of every employee to make safety a main priority at work.  Because our employees are our most important assets, their safety is our greatest responsibility.  In order to establish and maintain a safe working environment, we will need full cooperation from every employee.  Accordingly, any employee who has reason to believe that the working environment is unsafe shall report the hazard at once to the appropriate supervisor, principal, or Superintendent of Schools.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

### Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens

In accordance with the United States Department of Labor Occupational Safety, and Health Administration regulations dealing with "Safe Workplace" standards related to exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens, the Board has developed and will implement procedures to protect at risk employees. These procedures, contained in the Board of Education Exposure Control Plan (the "procedures") are designed to comply in full with applicable federal and state law regulations. The procedures will be overseen by the Superintendent or his/her designee, who shall also be responsible for periodically reviewing and updating them. Copies of the procedures will be kept in the nurse's office at each school and in central office. The procedures will be monitored by the Connecticut Department of Labor.

It is the policy of the Board of Education, through these procedures, to take all necessary actions to protect its employees from infectious disease, and in particular, H.I.V. and Hepatitis B Virus, a life threatening bloodborne pathogen.

The Board will further provide training and protective equipment to those persons who, by virtue of the performance of job duties, are at risk to come in contact with infectious disease. finally, all at risk employees of the Board, as defined in the procedures, will be offered the vaccine for Hepatitis B Virus, a life threatening bloodborne pathogen.

Training, needed protective equipment and vaccination, as provided in the procedures, will be at no cost to the personnel and are provided as a precaution for personnel safety.

> Legal Reference:  
> 
> * 29 CFR Part 1910.1030 Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens; Final Rule.
> * Connecticut State Agencies Regulations
>   * Section 31-372-101-1910.1030.
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 31-372 Adoption of federal and state standards. Variance.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

