## 4148 - Employee Protection

An employee may use reasonable force as is necessary to protect himself/herself from attack, to protect another person or property, to quell a disturbance threatening physical injury to others, or to obtain possession of weapons or other dangerous objects upon the person or in the control of a student.

Employees shall immediately report cases of assault suffered by them in connection with their employment to their principal or other immediate superior, and to local law enforcement agencies. Such notification shall be forwarded immediately to the Superintendent who shall comply with any reasonable request from the employee for information in the possession of the Superintendent relating to incident or the persons involved, and shall act as liaison between the employee, the police and the courts.

No school administrator shall interfere with the right of a teacher or other school employee to file a complaint with the local police authority in cases of threats of physical violence or actual physical violence against such teacher or employee.

As required by law, the Board of Education will file a report annually with the State Board of Education indicating the number of threats and physical assaults made by students upon teachers, administrators and other school personnel, and the number of physical assaults involving dangerous weapons made by students upon other students.

If criminal or civil proceedings are brought against an employee alleging that the employee committed an assault in connection with his/her employment, such employee may request the Board of Education to furnish legal counsel to defend the employee in any civil action or proceeding brought against the employee, within the limits set by law.

The Board of Education shall reimburse an employee for the cost of medical, surgical or hospital services (less the amount of any insurance reimbursement) incurred as the result of any injury sustained in the course of his/her employment in accordance with CGS §10-236a.

Section 52-557b of the General Statutes grants immunity from liability for emergency medical assistance to a person in need of it when the assistance is given by a teacher or other school personnel on the school grounds, in a school building, or at a school function, provided that the teacher or other staff member has completed a course in first aid offered by the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, the State Department of Health Services, or any municipal health department, as certified by that agency, has such immunity that extends to civil damages for any personal injuries which result from acts or omissions by the person giving the emergency care or first aid, which might constitute ordinary negligence. Such immunity does not apply to acts or omissions constituting gross, willful or wanton negligence.

### Employee Assistance Program

The Killingly Board of Education recognizes that a wide range of problems not directly associated with one's job function can have an affect on an employee's job performance. In most instances the employee will overcome such personal problems independently and the effect on job performance will be negligible. In other instances, supervisory assistance can serve to resolve employee job performance problems.

In some cases, however, neither the efforts of the employer nor supervisor have the desired effect of resolving the employee's problems and unsatisfactory performance persists either constantly or intermittently. Such personal problems could include family difficulties, delinquent children, financial or legal problems, mental strain or emotional illness, alcohol or other drug misuse. Believing that most of these problems may be treated and prevented with appropriate professional assistance, the Board of Education in cooperation with the staff is therefore establishing the Employee Assistance Program.

1.  The Employee Assistance Program is designed to help employees having problems that may have a negative effect on job performance and/or an individual's quality of life; to assist these employees to seek help with their problems; and to provide a means for referral for those employees to the best available assistance. The ultimate objective of the program is to provide assistance to employees experiencing problems that may affect their job performance and well-being.

2.  When an employee's job performance is unsatisfactory and the employee is unable to correct the situation, either alone or with normal supervisory assistance, this may indicate that there is some cause outside the realm of his/her job responsibilities which is the basis of the problem.

3.  Employees, who have a problem which they feel may affect work performance or emotional well being, are encouraged to voluntarily seek information and counseling on a confidential basis by contacting the designated employee assistance program coordinator. In situations of continued unsatisfactory job performance, an individual's supervisor may recommend that the employee contact the employee assistance program or may make a direct referral to the program coordinator, with the employee's consent.

4.  Employees are assured that if personal problems are contributing to unsatisfactory job performance or emotional well being, they will receive careful consideration and an offer of assistance to help resolve such problems in a confidential manner from the employee assistance program.

5.  Employees are assured that job security and promotional opportunities will not be jeopardized by participation in the employee assistance program.

6.  Each employee must consider whether he or she wishes to accept a supervisor's recommendation to participate in the program.  Employees are always free to refuse a supervisor’s recommendation without penalty.  However, if job performance continues to be unsatisfactory, that will then be handled in the same manner as any unsatisfactory job performance regardless of cause.  In instances where it is necessary, sick leave may be granted for participation in the employee assistance program on the same basis as time is granted for other health problems.

7.  This program is built on the confidential and private handling of employee's problems. No requests for information about nature of the problem will be granted to anyone without written consent of the employee involved.

8.  This program is not limited to problems affecting job performance. Employees may seek assistance for personal problems without their employer's knowledge by directly contacting the program coordinator.

9.  Since employee work performance or emotional well being may be affected by the problems of an employee's spouse or other dependents, the program is also available to an employee's immediate family members.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-233b Removal of students from class.
>   * 10-233c Suspension of students.
>   * 10-233g Boards to report school violence. Reports of principals to police authority.
>   * 10-235 Indemnification of teachers, board and commission members and employees in damage suits; expenses of litigation.
>   * 10-236  Liability insurance.
>   * 10-236a Indemnification of educational personnel assaulted in the line of duty.
>   * 52-557b Immunity from liability for emergency medical assistance, first aid or medication by injection. School personnel not required to administer or render.
>   * 53a-18 Use of reasonable physical force or deadly physical force generally.
>   * 53a-19 Use of physical force in defense of person.

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

---

### Self-Referral

1.  Employees who have personal, family or work-related problems are encouraged to utilize the employee assistance program by contacting the employee assistance coordinator directly at 774-2020 from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Monday through Friday. Emergency crisis intervention services are available at the same phone number 24 hours a day.

2.  Contact with the service is completely confidential, and the caller’s situation is not discussed with anyone without the caller’s agreement. Callers may remain anonymous if they wish, and are free to accept or reject any advice or suggestions made.

### Supervisor Referral

1.  This program is one alternative for supervisors seeking to assist in the correction of job performance difficulties or other employee concerns.

2.  If an employee's personal or work-related difficulty is affecting job performance or attendance is unsatisfactory, it will be called to his/her attention according to regular procedure.

3.  If unsatisfactory performance continues, the supervisor will discuss the problem privately with the employee. The supervisor will not delve into personal problems to try to find the cause of unsatisfactory job performance. This is the responsibility of the employee assistance coordinator.

4.  If it appears that the employee's performance is not improved to a satisfactory level, the supervisor may refer the employee to the employee assistance coordinator who is trained to diagnose problems and secure help. Supervisors' responsibilities in implementing this program are defined in the EAP Supervisor’s Guide (available upon request). They include the following guarantees:

  a.  No employee referral may be made without the employee's permission and before there has been a meeting with the employee (the EAP Coordinator is available for consultation to supervisors about employee meetings).

  b.  It is suggested that the supervisor make this referral in the presence of the employee.

  c.  A supervisor referral will require the EAP Coordinator to periodically inform the supervisor of the referred employee's attendance. All other information including the nature of the problem will remain private and confidential unless the employee requests otherwise. A signed release indicates employee's acceptance of these conditions

5.  If the employee's job performance problems continue, whether or not assistance is sought, standard disciplinary procedures will be followed. However, the employee's participation in the employee assistance program will be taken into consideration.

### General Information

There is no cost to utilize the employee assistance program for an evaluation. Up to three sessions are available for initial evaluation. If further referral is indicated for a specific problem, the coordinator will actively assist the employee in making referral arrangements and will follow up to make sure those arrangements continue to be appropriate. In most cases continuity of services will not be interrupted as U.S.M.H.S. is the major provider of services in the area. These costs are reimbursable in part by the employer's insurance coverage and the balance is subject to a sliding scale. In all cases additional referrals will be made taking into consideration the individual's financial situation.

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**

