## 4148.1 - School Security and Safety Committee

The Board of Educational shall establish at each school a school security and safety committee to increase staff and student awareness of safety and health issues and to review the adequacy of emergency response procedures at each school in the District. The committee shall be responsible for assisting in the development of the school's security and safety plan for the school and administering such plan.

The Board believes the involvement of key community stakeholders is central to success in developing and implementing a comprehensive emergency readiness plan. Membership in the school district safety committee must include a local law enforcement officer, a local first responder, \(fire department\), a teacher, an administrator, a mental health professional \(guidance counselor, school social worker, school psychologist, school nurse or child mental health specialist\), a parent/guardian of an enrolled student and any other persons the Board finds necessary. The collaborating team shall assess need and develop the school security and safety plan/emergency management plan and assist in its implementation and review.

It is critical that the District, when developing a plan to prepare for, prevent, respond to and recover from incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity, understand and utilize in a school emergency situation the consistent approach embodied in the National Incident Management System \(NIMS\) offered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.  Also, the school security and safety plan for each school shall be based upon the school security and safety plan standards developed by the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection.

\(cf. [3516](/policies/3000/3516.md) - Safe and Secure School Facilities, Equipment and Grounds\)

\(cf. [3517](/policies/3000/3517.md) - Security of Buildings and Grounds\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-220f Safety committee
> 
> * PA 98-252 An Act Concerning Revisions to the Education Statutes and the Registration of Interpreters for the Deaf and Hearing Impaired. \(Sec. 67\)
> * P.A. 13-3 An Act Concerning Gun Violence Prevention and Children's Safety \(Sections 86, 87\)

**Policy Adopted:  November 13, 2013**

