## 4152.6 - Personal Leaves - Family and Medical Leave Act

The Board will provide leave to eligible employees consistent with Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 \(FMLA\). Eligible employees are entitled to up to 12 work weeks of unpaid family and medical leave in any 12-month period. The district will continue to pay the district's share of the employee's health benefits during the leave. In addition, the district will restore the employee to the same or an equivalent position after the termination of the leave in accordance with board policy.

Employees will not be deprived of any employment benefits accrued before taking FMLA leave.  Conversely, employees on FMLA leave are not entitled to accrue any seniority or benefits during the leave unless determined otherwise due to a collective bargaining agreement.  When an employee returns from FMLA leave, benefits will be resumed in the same manner as provided prior to taking the leave, subject to any changes in benefit levels that may have occurred during the FMLA leave period and which affect the entire work force.

In complying with the FMLA, the district will adhere to the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act as well as other applicable federal and state laws.

\(cf. [4118.14](/policies/4000/4118-14.md) - Disabilities\)

\(cf. 4151.2 - Family Illness\)

\(cf. 4152.3 - Maternity; Adoptive; Child Care\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * P.L. 103-3 and 29 CFR Part 825 - The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
> * Final Rule - published in Federal Register, Vol. 60, Nov. 4, Friday, January 6, 1995, as amended on February 3, 1995 and on March 30, 1995.  Rules and Regulations \(29CFR Port 825\)

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

---

The following administrative regulations apply only to the Family and Medical Leave Act \(FMLA\).

### Eligibility

An employee who has worked for the district for at least 12 months is eligible for 12 work weeks of FMLA leave during a 12-month period provided the employee worked at least 1,250 hours in the 12 months preceding the beginning of the leave.  The 12 months of employment need not be consecutive months. Hours worked includes all hours, including overtime, an employee works but does not include paid leave time such as vacations, sick or personal leave, holidays etc.  Full time professional instructional employees who are exempt from the wage and hour law may be presumed to have worked the minimum hour requirement.

For purposes of FMLA leave a 12-month period is the district's fiscal year, July 1 through June 30.  The 12 months of employment need not be consecutive months.

### Serious Health Condition

A "serious health condition" that would entitle an employee to FMLA leave is one involving continuing treatment by a health care provider that results in a period of incapacity of more than three consecutive calendar days and involves either treatment two or more times by a health care provider or treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion followed by a regimen of continuing treatment under the supervision of the health care provider.

Over the counter medication, bed rest, taking of fluids, exercise and other activities that can be initiated without a visit to a health care provider do not constitute continuing treatment.

Chronic conditions such as asthma and diabetes are considered a serious health condition even if individual episodes of incapacity do not last more than three days.  Furthermore, conditions need not be chronic or long term when the condition is one which is not ordinarily incapacitating but for which multiple treatments are given because the condition would likely result in a period of incapacity of more than three calendar days in the absence of medical intervention.  Regarding long-term chronic conditions, the condition need not be incurable.  The condition may involve a permanent or long-term incapacity and be one for which treatment may not be effective.  \(29 C.F.R. 825.114.\)

### Health Care Provider

The definition of "health care provider" includes any health care provider recognized by the employer or accepted by the group health plan of the employer.  It also includes clinical social workers.  \(29 C.F.R. 825.118.\)

### Types of Leave

An eligible employee may take FMLA leave for:

* the birth and first-year care of a child;

* the adoption or foster placement of a child;

* the serious illness of an employee's spouse, parent or child; and

* the employee's own serious health condition that keeps the employee from performing the essential functions of his\/her job.


An employee may elect, or the district may require, an employee to use accrued paid vacation, personal or family leave for purposes of a family leave. An employee may elect, or the district may require, an employee to use accrued vacation, personal or medical\/sick leave for purposes of a medical leave. An employee cannot compel the district to permit the employee to use accrued medical\/sick leave in any situation which the leave could not normally be used.

### Spouses Employed by the School District

If a husband and wife eligible for leave are employed by this school district, their combined amount of leave for birth, adoption, foster care placement and parental illness may be limited to 12 weeks.  An employee may not take FMLA leave to care for a parent-in-law.

### Unforeseeable, Continuous, Intermittent and Reduced Leave

Unforeseeable leave involves situations such as emergency medical treatment or premature birth.

Continuous leave is taken for a set number of days or weeks.

Intermittent leave is leave taken in separate blocks of time due to a single illness or injury rather than one continuous period of time.

Reduced leave is a leave schedule that reduces employee's usual number of hours per work week, or hours per work day.

Intermittent or reduced leave is available only for the employee's own serious health condition or to care for a seriously ill spouse, child or parent.  Such leave may not be used for the birth or adoption\/placement of a child or to care for a newborn or recently adopted child.  In the case of foreseeable intermittent or reduced leave, the employee must schedule the leave to minimize disruption to the district's operation.

The employee who wishes to use intermittent or reduced leave shall, whenever possible, give prior notification to the district. Although the district and employee may agree to an intermittent or reduced leave plan, the employee who uses family leave is not automatically entitled to use such leave on an intermittent basis or on a reduced leave schedule. The district may provide such leave for medical leave but the district may transfer the employee to a position which is equivalent, but more suitable for intermittent periods of leave provided said leave amounts to more than twenty \(20\) percent of the total number of working days in the period during which the leave would extend.  The employee must furnish the district with the expected dates of the planned medical treatment and the duration of the treatment.  The superintendent must authorize such leave in writing.

### Benefits

The district will maintain the employee's health coverage under the district's group health insurance plan during the period of FMLA leave. The employee should make arrangements with the district to pay the employee's share of health insurance \(e.g. family coverage\) prior to the beginning of the FMLA leave.

The employee will not lose any other employment benefit accrued prior to the date on which leave began but is not entitled to accrue seniority or employment benefits during the leave period.  Employment benefits could include group life insurance, sick leave, annual leave, educational benefits and pensions.

### Notice

When the FMLA leave is foreseeable, the employee must notify the district in writing of his\/her request for leave at least 30 days prior to the date when the leave is to begin. Failure to give notice may result in the leave beginning thirty days after notice was received.  If the leave is not foreseeable, the employee must give notice as early as is practical but no later than one to two work days after learning that leave will be necessary.  A spouse or family member may give the notice if the employee is unable to personally give notice.  When the employee requests medical leave, the employee must make reasonable attempts to schedule treatment so as not to disrupt the district's operations.

The district, when a request for FMLA leave is received, will provide the employee the following information, listing the employees obligations and requirements:

1. A statement clarifying whether the leave qualifies as family and medical leave and will, therefore, be credited to the employee's annual 12-week entitlement.

2. A reminder that employees requesting family and medical leave for a serious health condition or for that of an immediate family member must furnish medical certification of the serious health condition and the consequences for failing to do so.

3. An explanation of the employee's right to substitute paid leave for family and medical leave including a description of when the school district requires substitution of paid leave and the conditions related to the substitution.

4. A statement notifying employees for paying any premium or other payments to maintain health or other benefits.


The district may deny the leave if the employee does not meet the notice requirements.

### Certification

The district shall require the employee to provide certification of the employee's serious health condition from a health care provider containing specific information required under the law if he\/she requests a medical leave.  If there is a question concerning the validity of such certification a second, and, if necessary, a third opinion can be required both at the expense of the district.  The district shall also require the employee to present medical certification of the family member's serious health condition and that it is medically necessary for the employee to take leave to care for the family member.

If the leave was for reasons related to the employee's serious health condition, upon the employee's return to work, the district will require that the employee present a fitness statement from the employee's health care provider certifying that the employee is able to return to work.  The Board will consider the nature of the employees serious health condition, and the demands of the employee’s position, when determining whether to require certification of ability to resume work.

The required certifications must be obtained from the health care provider who is treating the individual with the serious health condition.

Medical certification must be provided fifteen \(15\) days after the request for medical certification unless it is impracticable to do so.  Employees taking family and medical leave for the birth, adoption or foster care of a son or daughter are not required to obtain a medical certification.  The District may request recertification every thirty \(30\) days.  Recertification must be submitted within fifteen \(15\) days of the district's request.

Family and medical leave requested for the serious health condition of the employee or to care for a family member with a serious health condition which is not supported by medical certification shall be denied until such certification is provided.

Verification must also be presented when requesting FMLA leave to care for the employee's spouse, son, daughter or parent with a serious health condition.

### Restoration

An employee's right to return to the same or an equivalent position is contingent upon the employee's continued ability to perform all the essential functions of the position.

When the employee returns from leave within or on the business day following the expiration of 12 weeks, the district will restore the employee to the same or an equivalent position with equivalent benefits, pay, terms, and conditions of employment shift, and geographically proximate workplace in accordance with Board policy.   Employees are entitled to any unconditional pay increase, such as cost of living increases, that occur during the period to their FMLA leave.

Under certain circumstances, the district may deny restoration to a key employee.  The district will comply with the notice requirements of the FMLA in denying restoration.  A key employee is one who is among the highest paid 10% of the employees and whose absence would cause the district to experience a substantial and grievous economic injury.

Further, the district may deny restoration to an employee if the district shows that the employee would not otherwise be employed at time of reinstatement for reasons such as layoff, shift or special project elimination.  In addition, collective bargaining agreements between the board and employee groups will not diminish the rights of the employee established by FMLA.

A returning employee can not be restored to a position that requires additional licensure or certification.

### Instructional Employees

Special rules apply to instructional employees. Instructional employees are those employees whose principal function is to teach and instruct students in a small group, or an individual setting. This term includes teachers, athletic coaches, driving instructors and special education assistants such as signers for the hearing impaired. It does not include teacher assistants or aides who do not have as their principal job actual teaching or instructing, nor does it include auxiliary personnel such as counselors, psychologists or curriculum specialists. It also does not include cafeteria workers, maintenance workers or bus drivers.

Limitations apply to instructional employees who take intermittent or reduced leave.  If the leave requested is

* to care for a family member, or

* for the employees own serious health condition and

* is foreseeable based on planned medical treatment \(i.e. chemotherapy, prenatal visits, physical therapy etc.\) and

* the employee would be on leave for more than 20% of the total number of working days over the period the leave would extend, then the district may require the employee to choose either to:

  1. take the leave for a period of a particular duration, not greater than the duration of the planned treatment; or

  2. transfer temporarily to an available alternative position for which the employee is qualified, which has equivalent pay and benefits, and which better accommodates recurring periods of leave than does the employee's regular position.  However, an instructional employee cannot be transferred to an alternative position when the employee takes intermittent leave that amounts to twenty \(20\) percent or less of the total number of working days in the period during which the leave would extend.



Intermittent leave is not available to take care of a newborn or recently adopted child.

Limitations also apply to instructional employees who take leave near the end of a semester.  When an instructional employee begins leave more than five \(5\) weeks before the end of a semester the district may require the employee to continue taking leave until the end of the semester if:

1. the leave will last at least three weeks, and

2. the employee would return to work during the three-week period before the end of the semester.


When an instructional employee begins leave for a purpose other than the employee's own serious health condition during the five-week period before the end of the semester, the district may require the employee to continue taking leave until the end of the semester if

1. the leave will last more than two weeks, and

2. the employee would return to work during the two-week period before the end of the semester.


When an instructional employee begins leave for a purpose other than the employee's own serious health condition during the three-week period before the end of a semester, and the leave will last more than five \(5\) working days, the district may require the employee to continue taking leave until the end of the semester.

Leave may not be counted against an employee during times \(vacation periods\) when they are not normally required to work.

When the employee is required to take leave until the end of the semester, only the time until the employee is "ready and able" to work shall be charged to FMLA leave.

### Failure to Return

The district is entitled to recover health care premiums paid during the leave if the employee fails to return from leave. However, recovery cannot occur if the employee fails to return because of the continuation, recurrence, or onset of a serious health condition or due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee.

### Records

The FMLA requires employers to maintain records in accordance with the record keeping requirements of Section 11\(c\) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and in accordance with FMLA regulations. FMLA regulations require that such records disclose the following:

1. Name, address and occupation of the employee; rate or basis of pay and terms of compensation; daily and weekly hours worked per pay period; additions to or deductions from wages; and total compensation paid;

2. Dates FMLA leave is taken by employees. Leave must be designated in records as FMLA leave;

3. If FMLA leave is taken in increments of less than one full day, the hours of the leave;

4. Any written notice of FMLA leave given by the employee, and copies of all notices given to employees as required by law and by this policy;

5. Any documents describing employee benefits or employer policies and practices regarding the taking of paid and unpaid leaves;

6. Payment of any employee benefits premiums; and

7. Records of any dispute regarding designation of leave as FMLA leave, including any written statement form the Board or an employee of the reasons for the designation and for the disagreement.


### Medical Records

Records and documents relating to medical certifications, recertifications or medical histories of employees or employees’ family members, shall be maintained in separate files\/records and treated as confidential medical records.

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**

