## 4211 - Recruitment and Selection

This school system can secure the kind of personnel it wants by an effective recruitment program based upon alertness to good candidates, initiative that results in prompt action, and good personnel practices in dealing with applicants.

It is the responsibility of the Superintendent of Schools and of persons designated by the Superintendent to determine the personnel needs of the school system and to locate suitable candidates to recommend for employment to the Board of Education where appropriate. An estimate of the cost of the recruitment and selection program will be made annually by the Superintendent and presented to the Board of Education for inclusion in the annual budget.

No inquiry in regard to an employee's race, color, religious creed, sex, sexual orientation, ancestry, present or past history of mental disorder, mental retardation, pregnancy, or physical disability, except in the case of a bona fide occupational qualification or need shall be made of a person proposed for or seeking employment.

Upon employment, the school department’s physician shall certify to the Superintendent of Schools that said employee is in good health and in fit condition for service.

It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Schools to see that persons nominated for employment shall meet all qualifications established by law and by the Board of Education for the type of position for which nomination is made.

(cf. 4111.1 - Affirmative Action).

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.

* 46a-81a Discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation

* Title VII, Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.

* Title IX, Equal Employment Opportunity Act

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

