## 4212.42 - Drug and Alcohol Testing For School Bus Drivers

The District shall adhere to federal law and regulations requiring a school bus driver drug and alcohol testing program.

> Legal Reference:  
> 
> * United States Code, Title 49
>   * 2717 Alcohol and controlled substances testing (Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991)
> * Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49
>   * 40 Procedures for Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs
>   * 382 Controlled Substance and Alcohol Use and Testing
>   * 395 Hours of Service Drivers
> * Holiday v. City of Modesto (1991) 229 Cal. App. 3d. 528, 540.
> * International Brotherhood of Teamsters v. Department of Transportation
> * PA 95-140 An Act Authorizing Drug Testing of Drivers of Certain Commercial Motor Vehicles

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

---

### Drug and Alcohol Testing  (Holders of Commercial Drivers License)

This regulation is designed to enhance productivity and safety and foster excellence by maintaining a safe and productive environment for employees. The Killingly Board of Education maintains a strong commitment to a drug-free and alcohol-free work environment and has approved this regulation to provide guidance to supervisors and employees in dealing with drug use and alcohol misuse. This regulation is applicable only to Killingly Board of Education employees and volunteers subject to U.S. Department of Transportation ("DOT") regulations on drug use and alcohol misuse. The Killingly Board of Education reserves the right to conduct drug and/or alcohol tests for an applicant and/or current employees in accordance with State and/or Federal law.

The Killingly Board of Education will not tolerate drug abuse or alcohol misuse. There are serious consequences in this regulation for individuals who use drugs, misuse alcohol, or commit prohibited conduct events.

To further our commitment to providing a safe, drug-free and alcohol-free environment, the Killingly Board of Education has adopted the following:

*  a drug and alcohol testing program for all applicants for employment and a random testing program for certain employee categories.

*  a program for evaluating employees who violate the drug use and alcohol misuse regulation;

*  an employee and supervisor education and training program;

*  administrative procedures for record keeping, reporting, releasing information, and certifying compliance.

All items in this regulation that relate to disciplinary actions, employment or contractor terminations, leaves of absence, and all financial issues are not DOT requirements. All of these elements that are included in this regulation are based on the Killingly Board of Education's authority independent of DOT regulations.  Other items that are included in this regulation that are not DOT requirements and are based on the Killingly Board of Education's independent authority of DOT regulations, are marked as "Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education regulation…"

### Participation As a Requirement of Employment

Participation in this DOT mandated drug and alcohol testing program is a condition of employment (or use as a contractor/subcontractor) for School Bus Drivers and other safety sensitive individuals as defined by DOT regulation and/or State or Federal law.

### Supplement to Employer's General Policy And Collective Bargaining Agreements

Killingly Board of Education employees remain subject to the prohibitions, rules, and benefits of the Killingly Board of Education's general policy and collective bargaining agreements, whether in force now or implemented in the future, and should view this DOT policy as a supplement to the general policy and collective bargaining agreements. To the extent that there may be a conflict between any provision of the general policy or collective bargaining agreements and a provision of this DOT policy or the DOT regulations, the DOT policy and regulations shall be controlling.

### Employee Categories Subject To Testing

This DOT policy applies to employees and contractors whose positions may require them to drive commercial motor vehicles and to applicants for such positions (collectively, "drivers"). These commercial motor vehicles are those that have a gross vehicle weight of more than 26,000 pounds (inclusive of a towed unit with a gross vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds), or are used in the transportation of hazardous materials in a quantity requiring "placarding", or are designed to carry more than 15 passengers, including the driver.

### Safety Sensitive Functions

DOT regulations establish conduct which is prohibited by employees in categories defined herein during the performance of "Safety Sensitive Functions."  DOT regulations define safety sensitive functions to include the following elements of job performance:

*  waiting to be dispatched, unless relieved from duty by the Board;

*  performing inspection or servicing the motor vehicle;

*  driving the motor vehicle;

*  loading or unloading the motor vehicle, supervising the loading or

*  unloading, giving receipts for the load, or waiting to operate the motor vehicle just before or after loading or unloading;

*  performing duties and services at an accident scene;

*  repairing, obtaining assistance for or remaining in attendance by a

*  disabled vehicle; and

*  being physically present anywhere on the motor vehicle except when resting off-duty in the motor vehicle's sleeper berth.

### Prohibited Conduct

* Alcohol

  As referred to in this regulation, alcohol means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol or other low molecular weight alcohols including methyl or isopropyl alcohol. DOT regulations currently prohibit a covered employee from reporting to duty or remaining on duty requiring the performance of safety sensitive functions while having an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater.1

  Employees who perform safety sensitive functions must not consume alcohol:

  1.  while immediately available to perform a safety sensitive function;

  2.  while performing a safety sensitive function;

  3.  within four hours prior to performing a safety sensitive function;

  4.  immediately after performing a safety sensitive function, (to allow for alcohol testing immediately after a shift); and

  5.  for up to eight hours following an accident, or until the employee undergoes a post-accident test, whichever occurs first.

  No safety sensitive individual shall use alcohol during the situations specified herein.

  No safety sensitive individual shall be on duty or operate a commercial motor vehicle while he/she possesses alcohol, unless the alcohol is manifested and transported as part of a shipment.

*  Controlled Substances

  Employees who perform a safety sensitive function are strictly prohibited from using or ingesting prohibited drugs at any time. As referred to in this policy, a controlled substance or drug means marijuana, cocaine, opiate, amphetamines or phencyclidine. DOT regulations prohibit the performance of safety sensitive functions when a prohibited level of any of these specified drugs are detected in the employee's urine.

*  Refusal to Submit

  Refusal to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test is prohibited under DOT regulations. Behavior that constitutes "Refusal to Submit" includes:

  1.  direct refusal to submit to a test;

  2.  failure to provide sufficient quantity of urine within the time limit specified in the current regulations, or the failure to provide sufficient quantities of breath or urine without a valid medical explanation;

  3.  tampering with or attempting to adulterate the specimen;

  4.  engaging in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process;

  5.  leaving the scene of an accident without a valid reason before tests are conducted without notifying the Killingly Board of Education of where he/she can be reached to be available for testing; and,

  6.  not reporting directly to the collection site after notification and/or intentionally delaying the collection and testing process.

An employee who "Refuses to Submit" to a drug/alcohol test shall not be permitted to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions.

### Drug and Alcohol Testing Program

All employee categories identified herein will be subject to testing pursuant to DOT regulations. Any testing procedures utilized by the Killingly Board of Education will conform with applicable Federal and State requirements, and the Killingly Board of Education will conduct the appropriate tests required by applicable law to determine if an employee has a controlled substance or alcohol level equal to or greater than 0.02 in his or her system.

The Killingly Board of Education will adhere to all required standards of confidentiality. Testing records and results will be released only to those authorized to receive such information.

### Testing Procedures

The Killingly Board of Education will select an appropriate site for the collection of urine and breath samples which meets the requirements specified by the DOT. Normally, administration of breath tests for alcohol will be performed concurrently with urine collections. The Killingly Board of Education, however, reserves the right to administer breath tests separately from urine collections and to administer breath tests and/or urine collections on Killingly Board of Education premises.

* Controlled Substances

  The actual drug test analysis will be conducted only at laboratories that are certified by the Department of Health and Human Services (or other agency as required by current DOT regulations.) Vendors utilized in connection with DOT drug testing will comply with all DOT regulations intended to insure the accuracy and confidentiality of test results and the fair and respectful treatment of persons being tested. There are various testing result thresholds of the presence of drugs before they will be reported as a presumed positive to the Medical Review Officer (MRO). A urine specimen which is identified as positive on an initial test will be confirmed using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry techniques before results are sent by the laboratory to the MRO.

  Following approved procedures, urine collections will be taken using a split sample procedure which requires a portion of each urine specimen to be retained in a separate, sealed container. This procedure provides an opportunity for a re-test, at the request of the employee, in the event the initial test result is positive.

*  Alcohol

  An initial alcohol screening test measures the blood alcohol content (BAC) of the safety sensitive individual at the time of the test.  A second test on an evidential testing device must reconfirm the initial result before it is a final test result.

  Before this confirmation test is completed, a 15 to 30 minute wait is required to reduce the impact of mouth alcohol. The confirming testing process may only be performed on evidential breath testing equipment which utilizes air blinks to assure that ambient conditions are not negatively affecting the testing process. In addition, the alcohol breath testing equipment shall be periodically checked and calibrated with samples containing known alcohol concentrations.

### Re-testing at the Employee's Request

A request for a re-test will not delay any administrative actions.

*  Controlled Substances

  An employee whose urine test is positive may request that the split sample be tested at a separate laboratory meeting the required federal certification. DOT regulations require that the employee must make such a request within seventy-two (72) hours of learning of a verified positive test.2

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, all costs associated with the re-testing or split sample testing must be prepaid by the employee, including shipping and handling, transportation, testing and reporting to the MRO. If the result of the re-test or split sample test is negative, these costs will be reimbursed to the employee. Additionally, if the result of the split sample is negative, the employee will be reinstated with no loss of seniority and paid for lost back wages.

* Alcohol

  Because of the use of a confirmation test in the alcohol testing procedure, DOT regulations do not require an option for a split specimen and, therefore, there will be no opportunity for an alcohol retest.

### Final Test Result

A positive drug test result is final after an individual with a positive drug test result either: (1) does not request a split specimen re-test within the time frame allowed, or (2) the requested re-test reconfirms the positive result.

### Role of the Medical Review Officer (MRO)

The program will utilize a MRO, a licensed physician (medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy), who has appropriate knowledge and medical training to interpret and evaluate an individual's initial confirmed positive test result together with his or her medical history and any other relevant biomedical information. The MRO's responsibility will include providing a review of the laboratory's "chain of custody" documentation to ensure that it has properly tracked the handling and storage of the urine specimen.

Before determining that an initial presumed positive test result is a final positive, a canceled test, or a negative test result, the MRO will rule out alternate medical explanations through reviewing the tested individual's medical records, and will give the individual an opportunity to discuss the test result.

The MRO may verify a test as positive without having communicated directly with the employee about the test in three circumstances:

1.  the employee expressly declines the opportunity to discuss the test;

2.  the designated employer representative has successfully documented a contact with the employee and instructed the employee to contact the MRO and more than five days have passed since the date the employee was successfully contacted by the designated Town representative; or

3.  other circumstances provided for in DOT drug testing regulations.

### Role of the Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)

All employees who have a verified positive drug test, a confirmed alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater, or have committed a prohibited conduct event will be evaluated by a SAP to determine what assistance, if any, the employee needs to resolve problems associated with prohibited drug use or alcohol misuse. The employee must meet the treatment and education requirements specified by the SAP. If an in-patient treatment program is required, the employee must complete the treatment before being eligible to return to duty. If any other treatment is prescribed, the employee must meet the treatment requirements before being eligible to return to duty and perform any safety sensitive activities. If an employee is permitted to return to duty before completing any outpatient treatment and/or educational activities, he/she must fully cooperate with the ongoing program.

### Types of Testing

The Killingly Board of Education will perform the following types of drug and alcohol testing:

1.  Pre-Employment Testing (Drug Testing Only)

2.  Random Testing

3.  Reasonable Suspicion Testing

4.  Post-Accident Testing

5.  Return to Duty Testing

6.  Follow-up Testing

A.  Pre-Employment Testing

  All applicants for employment in and incumbent employees seeking transfer to safety sensitive positions will be informed in writing of the testing requirements and will undergo pre-employment drug tests.

  * Consequences of Positive Test Result

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, a positive pre-employment test for drugs shall be considered sufficient grounds to disqualify the applicant from employment with the Killingly Board of Education or to disqualify an incumbent employee's application for transfer into a safety sensitive position. An applicant who tests positive for drugs will be considered unqualified to work for the Board and will not be eligible to reapply for at least six months. An incumbent employee whose drug test result is positive will be subject to the same consequences as an employee whose results of a random drug test were positive.

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, the Board will not assign an applicant or incumbent employee who has failed a drug test or who has refused to take the test to a safety sensitive position. If such an applicant or employee later applies for a safety sensitive position, the Killingly Board of Education will administer another drug and/or alcohol test (if permitted). If the employee or applicant passes the second pre-employment test, the Killingly Board of Education may, at its sole discretion, assign and/or hire the employee or applicant to work in a safety sensitive position.

B.  Random Testing

  Random testing will be conducted for all employees performing safety sensitive functions at a rate established by law. Random tests will be unannounced and spread reasonably throughout the year. There will be no pattern to when random tests will be conducted, and all employees performing safety sensitive functions will have an equal chance of being selected for testing from the random pool each time random tests are conducted. Employees shall remain in the pool even after being selected and tested. An employee, therefore, may be selected for a random test more than once during a year.

  Employees will be selected anonymously using an identification number having no correlation to actual employee names. The employee must report immediately to the collection site after receiving notification of his/her selection from the random pool. In the event a randomly selected employee is absent from work on the day his/her test was scheduled, the employee will be tested immediately upon his/her return to work, as practicable, unless the employee fails to return to work before the next randomly selected testing date. In such an event, an additional employee identification number will be selected for each absent employee previously selected for testing.

  In the event it is necessary to collect a urine specimen from an employee for random testing outside his or her regular work hours, the employee will be paid for the extra time at the applicable overtime rate. An employee will be subject to random testing for alcohol only while the employee is performing safety sensitive functions or just before or just after performing safety sensitive functions.

  * Consequences of Positive Test Result

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, a positive drug and/or alcohol random test shall result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. After learning of an employee whose drug and/or alcohol test is positive or whose alcohol test result is 0.04 or greater, the individual will be given non-safety sensitive duties to perform, as available, or placed on an unpaid leave of absence at the sole discretion of the Killingly Board of Education. The employee will not perform safety sensitive functions until he/she has been evaluated by the SAP, completed all recommended treatment and taken a return-to-duty test with a verified negative result. Under normal circumstances, the first positive alcohol and/or drug test will not result in the termination of an employee. The Killingly Board of Education reserves the right, however, to make a determination on a case-by-case basis. No employee covered under this policy shall be disciplined or terminated except for just cause.

C.  Reasonable Suspicion Testing

  Employees who perform a safety sensitive function will be required to submit to a drug or alcohol test when the Killingly Board of Education has a reasonable suspicion that the employee has used a prohibited drug or misused alcohol. Reasonable suspicion is established if one (when practicable, two) supervisor(s) trained in detecting the signs of alcohol misuse and drug use reasonably concludes, based on his/her observation, that an employee has used drugs or misused alcohol. The determination that reasonable suspicion exists shall be based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, or body odors of the employee. The individual(s) which make the reasonable suspicion determination shall not administer the blood alcohol and/or controlled substance tests.

  The Killingly Board of Education will direct an employee to undergo reasonable suspicion testing for alcohol only if such observations are made during, just preceding or just after the period of the workday during which the employee is required to comply with the employee alcohol use prohibitions.  Additionally, a reasonable suspicion test for alcohol must be performed within eight hours following a determination that reasonable suspicion to test exists.  If a reasonable suspicion test is not performed within two hours after such a determination, the Killingly Board of Education will prepare and maintain a record stating the reasons the test was not promptly administered.

  A written record of the observations leading to a controlled substance reasonable suspicion test shall be made and signed by a supervisor or Board official within 24 hours of the observation or before the test results are released, whichever is first.

  An employee who undergoes reasonable suspicion testing will be removed from service pending the test results. If the test results are negative, the employee will be returned to work and paid for any time lost without loss of seniority.

  * Consequences of Positive Test Result

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, a positive drug and/or alcohol test shall result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. The employee will be removed from the safety sensitive position, and will be subject to the same consequences applied to employees following a positive random test. If the employee is not terminated, the employee shall, at a minimum, be subject to the same requirements regarding assessment, rehabilitation, and return to work testing applied to employees following a positive random test. An employee sent out for a reasonable suspicion test will be required to accept or arrange for independent transportation home.

D.  Post-Accident Testing

  Tests for the use of prohibited drugs and misuse of alcohol will be administered after certain accidents. Pursuant to DOT regulations as soon as practicable following an accident involving a commercial motor vehicle, each employer shall test for alcohol and controlled substances for each surviving driver:

  1.  who was performing safety-sensitive functions with respect to the vehicle, if the accident involved the loss of human life; or

  2.  who receives a citation under State or local law for a moving traffic violation arising from the accident.

  When post-accident tests are performed, they will be conducted as soon as possible following the accident. Drug tests must be performed within 32 hours and alcohol tests within eight hours following an accident. If the employee has not submitted to an alcohol test within two hours of the accident, the Killingly Board of Education will prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reason why the test was not administered promptly. If the alcohol test is not administered within eight hours after the accident, the Killingly Board of Education will cease efforts to administer the test and will maintain the same documents. If the drug test is not administered within 32 hours, the Killingly Board of Education will cease efforts to test for drugs and will prepare and maintain the same type of record.

  These testing requirements will not delay necessary medical attention for injured people, nor will they prohibit an employee who was performing a safety sensitive function from leaving the scene of an accident to obtain assistance in responding to the accident or to obtain necessity emergency medical care. Employees performing a safety sensitive function, however, must remain readily available for testing for 32 hours. This means the employee must ensure that the Killingly Board of Education knows the employee's location for at least a 32 hour period following an accident, or until post-accident drug and alcohol tests have been completed. An employee who is not available for testing will be considered to have refused to submit to testing unless his/her unavailability is attributable to efforts to obtain assistance in responding to the accident or obtaining necessary emergency medical care. Employees will be provided with necessary post-accident information, procedures and instructions prior to operating a commercial motor vehicle so they will be able to comply with the Federal regulations.

  An employee subject to post-accident testing must refrain from consuming alcohol for eight hours following the accident or until he/she submits to an alcohol test, whichever comes first.

  Employees and supervisors shall follow the steps below in a post-accident situation:

  1.  treat injuries first;

  2.  cooperate with local 1aw enforcement officers;

  * Consequences of Positive Test Result

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, a positive drug and/or alcohol test shall result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. The employee will be removed from the safety sensitive position and will at least be subject to the same consequences applied to employees following a positive random test. If the employee is not terminated, the employee shall, at a minimum, be subject to the same requirements regarding assessment, rehabilitation, follow-up and return to work testing applied to employees following a positive random test.

E.  Return-To-Duty Testing

  An employee with a verified positive drug test result, an alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater, a refusal to submit to a test, or any other activity violating this policy or State or Federal law may not return to work until the employee is evaluated by a SAP who determines the employee has followed any recommendations for rehabilitation made to the employee and passes a return-to-duty test. A return-to-duty test will be performed only after the SAP has indicated that the employee has followed the recommendations. To pass the return-to-duty test, the result must be a verified negative drug test result or an alcohol test result of less than 0.02. In the return-to-duty evaluation, the SAP also will determine whether the employee needs to participate in a rehabilitation program after returning to duty and the frequency and duration of follow-up testing after the employee returns to duty.

  *  Consequences of Positive Test Result

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, any positive drug test or any alcohol test with a result of 0.02 or higher for an employee subject to return-to-duty testing shall result in immediate termination.

F.  Follow-up Testing

  Employees permitted to return to duty following any positive test result may be placed in a follow-up testing program if it is determined by the SAP that assistance relating to drugs or alcohol is needed. Employees placed in a follow-up testing program must have a minimum of six follow-up tests. The follow-up test program will not exceed five years. Tests may be for both drugs and alcohol independent of the type of test with a positive result.

  * Consequences of Positive Test Result

  Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, any positive test result for an employee subject to follow-up shall result in immediate termination.

### Consequences of Engaging in Drug and Alcohol-Related Conduct

* Controlled Substances

  An employee who tests positive for drugs or refuses to submit to a drug test must be removed from performing safety sensitive functions immediately. An employee who tests positive for drugs or refuses to submit to a drug test may not perform a safety sensitive function until the employee has been evaluated by a SAP, completed all recommended treatment, and taken a return-to-duty drug test with a verified negative result. Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, the Board retains the right to terminate or otherwise discipline an employee who tests positive for drugs or refuses to submit to a drug test. No employee covered under this regulation shall be disciplined or terminated except for just cause.

* Alcohol

  An employee who has an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater may not perform a safety sensitive function until the employee has been evaluated by a SAP, completed all recommended treatment, and passed a return-to-duty test with an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02. Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education regulation, the Board retains the right to terminate or otherwise discipline an employee who tests positive for alcohol or refuses to submit to an alcohol test. No employee covered under this policy shall be disciplined or terminated except for just cause.

### Financial Issues For Employees

Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education regulation, the Board will be responsible for the expense of pre-employment, random selection, post-accident, and reasonable suspicion drug and alcohol tests.

Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, the Board will be responsible for the expense of the Substance Abuse Professional's services to determine if the individual needs help dealing with a drug or alcohol test result.

Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, the employee shall be responsible for return to duty tests, follow-up tests, and split specimen tests (unless the result of the test does not confirm the original positive test result). Individual tests that are the responsibility of the employee must be paid for in advance.

Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, if any treatment is prescribed, any cost not covered by insurance, if any, will be at the expense of the employee.

Pursuant to Killingly Board of Education policy, if an employee needs to get a medical opinion in a shy bladder or shy lung situation, the expense of this required activity' will be at the expense of the employee.

### Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988

Additional elements of this policy are as follows:

* Unlawful manufacturing, distribution, dispensation, possession or use of a controlled substance on employer premises or while conducting employer business off employer premises is prohibited.

* Employees must report any conviction under a criminal drug statute for violations, including a plea of "no contest", occurring on or off employer premises while conducting employer business.

* This written notification must be provided within five days of the conviction. This notification must be in writing, signed by the employee. Any employee may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, upon conviction of a felony involving the possession of or a transaction in illegal drugs, regardless of where the unlawful activities took place.

### Contact Person

DOT regulations require that a single contact person be identified to answer questions about this regulation. For the purposes of this regulation, the contact person will be David A. Cressy. Copies of relevant regulations are also available at this address.

### Education And Training

A.  Training For Employees

  The Killingly Board of Education will display and distribute to employees educational materials explaining the requirements of the DOT Drug and Alcohol Testing Regulations and its policies and procedures. Employees will be required to sign a form indicating that they have received a copy of the policies and procedures; the form will be kept on file.

B.  Training For Supervisors

  Supervisors responsible for determining when to administer reasonable suspicion tests will receive at least 60 minutes of alcohol awareness training and at least 60 minutes of drug awareness training.

### Changing DOT Regulations

DOT regulations change from time to time, and it is the employer's policy to implement the new requirements as they become effective.

### Implementation Date of This Regulation

The mandatory implementation date for the alcohol portion of this regulation was January 1, 1996.

The mandatory implementation date for the drug testing portion of this policy was January 1, 1996.

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**
