## 4217.41 - Just Cause

One or more of the following causes may be grounds for suspension or dismissal of any person employed in the non-certified service:

1.  Incompetency or inefficiency in the performance of the duties of the assigned position.

2.  Insubordination (including, but not limited to, refusal to do assigned work).

3.  Carelessness or negligence in the performance of duty or in the care or use of district property.

4.  Discourteous, offensive or abusive language or conduct toward other employees, students or the public.

5.  Dishonesty.

6.  Drinking alcoholic beverages on the job, or reporting for work while intoxicated.

7.  Use and possession of harmful drugs on school grounds without medical supervision.

8.  Personal conduct unbecoming an employee of the district.

9.  Engaging in political activity during assigned hours of employment or otherwise in violation of applicable policies or regulations of the district.

10.  Conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude, including a sex offense.

11.  Repeated or unexcused absence or tardiness.

12.  Abuse of leave privileges.

13.  Falsifying any information supplied to the school district, including but not limited to, information supplied on application forms, employment records, or any other school district record.

14.  Persistent violation of or refusal to obey safety rules and regulations made applicable to public schools by the Board of Education, the  Superintendent, or by any appropriate state or governmental agency.

15.  Offering anything of value or offering any service in exchange for special treatment in connection with the employee's job or to any member of the  public.

16.  Abandonment of position.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-151 Employment of teachers. Definitions. Notice and hearing on failure to renew or termination of contract. Appeal.

**Regulation approved:  May 12, 2004**

