## 4217.4 - Dismissal/Suspension

### Definitions

"**Suspension**" means temporary removal of an employee from a position with loss of pay, as a disciplinary measure, or removal from a position preliminary to decision of the Board of Education on charges leading to dismissal or demotion.

"**Dismissal**" means separation, discharge or permanent removal of an employee from service in the school system for cause in accordance with the policies and regulations of the school system.

### Notice of Disciplinary Action

A notice of disciplinary action shall contain a statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific charges on which the disciplinary action is based.  If violation of a policy or regulation of the school system is alleged, the policy or regulations shall be set forth in the notice. The notice must contain specific action or omission with which the employee is charged.  A general charge will not serve the purpose.

A proceeding may be brought by, or in behalf of, the employee to restrain any further proceedings under any notice of disciplinary action violative of this provision.

### Suspension of the Employee Pending Disciplinary Action

In any case where the Superintendent or designee deems it necessary or proper, the employee may be suspended until the Board of Education has determined what disciplinary action to take, if any, against the employee.

This suspension shall be without pay, except that if the Board of Education denies the recommendation of the Superintendent or designee, the employee shall be entitled to full pay for the suspension period.  If the Board modifies the recommendation of the Superintendent, the Board shall determine as part of its action whether the suspension or any part of the suspension shall be without pay.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**
