## 4234 - Organizations/Units

### Staff - Administrators - Board of Education Relationships

The Board of Education recognizes the right of employees to join or not join employee organizations under provisions of law, and that such organizations, if formed, may enter into collective negotiations with the Board of Education on topics specified in law. In all other areas the laws of the State of Connecticut and the policies and regulations of the school system are binding on school system employees. The Board of Education has the final responsibility of establishing policies for the school system. The Superintendent, with Board approval, sets forth the regulations under which the school system functions, and the Superintendent and staff have the responsibility of carrying out the policies and regulations established.

### Attainment of Goals

Attainment of the goals and objectives of the educational program conducted in the school requires mutual understanding and cooperation among the Board of Education, the Superintendent and management staff, the certified and non-certified personnel, and other citizens of the community.  To this end, free and open exchange of views is desirable, proper and necessary.

### Employee Organizations

All employees are free to join or not to join employee organizations. Decisions affecting the individual employee are made without regard to membership or non-membership in such organizations.  Each employee is entitled to individual legal or ethical rights and privileges.

Employees shall not be interfered with, intimidated, restrained, coerced or discriminated against either by the school system or by employee organizations because of their membership or non-membership in employee organizations. They shall have the right to participate through representatives of their own choosing in the presentation of their views to the Board of Education.

Employee organizations which meet the provisions of the law and the policies of the school system shall have the right to represent their members in matters within the scope of the law.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 7-467 et seq. Municipal Employees Relations
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited

**Policy adopted:  May 12, 2004**

