## 5010 - Mission-Student Expectations

### Mission

The Killingly Public Schools are committed to the excellence of our students, staff, and programs. We believe that education is more a process than a product, lifelong in duration and essential to the maintenance of a free society. As leaders in the community, our mission is to educate all children to become the most productive, self-fulfilled citizens possible. In an ever-changing world, it is our responsibility, in concert with parents, to impart to students the requisite knowledge, the curiosity, skills, abilities and attitudes to acquire new knowledge and the foundation necessary to make the critical decisions in life.

### Student Expectations

In order to implement this mission, the Board of Education is committed to ensuring that all students are successful in meeting high learning standards in the following areas:

1.  Reading, listening, and viewing actively and critically for a variety of purposes;

2.  Writing, speaking and presenting effectively for a variety of purposes and to a variety of audiences.

3.  Using a variety of mathematical methods to solve problems and function confidently in a mathematically sophisticated world;

4.  Applying scientific and technological concepts to demonstrate an understanding of their world;

5.  Analyzing social problems from a global perspective and contributing to society as a responsible and skilled citizen by applying techniques from different social science disciplines;

6.  Using technology to access, organize and communicate information;

7.  Using problem-solving strategies and critical thinking skills to solve authentic problems;

8.  Applying the concepts of personal physical fitness and good health;

9.  Developing an understanding of the elements and aesthetic values of the fine arts;

10.  Demonstrating skill and knowledge in career preparation and/or choice;

11.  Demonstrating an understanding of the value of cultural diversity;

12.  Developing interpersonal and cooperative skills, as well as responsible behavior

13.  Providing curricular and co-curricular activities which will give students the opportunity to grow aesthetically, emotionally, intellectually, physically, and socially through interaction with others.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

