## 5111.1 - Foreign Exchange Students

The Board encourages international studies. To that end, it allows foreign exchange students on one year J-I visas, who are residing with families in Killingly to enroll on a non-tuition basis in the local schools. Students who are accepted and placed in grade 12 will only receive either a diploma or an honorary diploma as determined by the Principal. Further, they must meet those criteria established by the administration in the area of language competency, residency, and deportment. Only foreign exchange students sponsored by organizations screened by the administration will be accepted. The administration may limit the number of students accepted for any school year.

Students entering the United States on F-I visas, may enter the local school system, only upon payment of the full, unsubsidized public education costs before entering the United States. Further, students on F-I visas may remain in the United States for no more than twelve (12) months. The local district, is prohibited by law, from waiving the tuition fee of students on F-I.

> Legal Reference:  
>  
> * Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

In order for a foreign exchange student to be eligible for enrollment in the Killingly Public Schools, the following criteria must be met:

A.  The student must not be a graduate of the school system in the country in which he/she is a native.

B.  The student must be sufficiently fluent in English so that he/she would not require any special services such as ESL.

C.  The application for admission must be reviewed by the appropriate school administrator before July 1 of the school year for which the student wishes to enroll.

D.  The school must have room for the student and be able to accommodate him/her without incurring additional costs or burden.

E.  The student may not be enrolled for more than one year.

F.  The Principal will determine if the student shall receive a diploma or an honorary diploma.

H.  The student may be eligible to play sports if he/she meets the CIAC criteria.

I.  If the student is not participating in and attending the school program or is disruptive to the smooth and efficient operation of the school, the student may be disenrolled.

J.  This program is designed for foreign students who enter the country on one-year J-I visas through established exchange programs such as Youth for Understanding, American Field Service or Rotary.

K.  Students entering the United States on F-1 visas may attend schools in the district only upon full payment of tuition before entering the United States. This tuition fee may not be waived due to federal legislation.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

