## 5112.3 - Dropouts

Parents and those who have control of children five years of age and over and under eighteen years of age, are obligated by Connecticut law to require their children attend public day school or its equivalent in the district in which such child resides, unless such child is a high school graduate or the parent or person having control of such child is able to show that the child is elsewhere receiving equivalent instruction in the studies taught in the public schools.  The parent or person having control of a child sixteen or seventeen years of age may consent to such child’s withdrawal from school.  For the school year commencing July 1, 2011, and each school year thereafter, the parent or person having control of a child seventeen years of age may consent to such child’s withdrawal from school. The parent or person shall exercise this option by personally appearing at the school district office to sign a withdrawal form. Such withdrawal form shall include an attestation from a guidance counselor or school administrator of the school that the district has provided the parent or person with information on the educational opportunities available in the school system in the community.

The administration, guidance staff and faculty of the school system shall extend every possible effort to the end that each student may meet with success in his/her school program, have a favorable school experience and earn a diploma.  Every attempt will be made to identify the potential dropout and to provide appropriate resources in order to assist such students.

Any student who seeks to drop out of school shall be referred immediately to a guidance counselor or school administrator.  The student, if under eighteen years of age, must present to the guidance counselor or administrator the required written parental consent of his/her withdrawal.  If the student is at or above the age of majority no such parental consent shall be sought.  A student under age eighteen shall not be allowed to withdraw who has not presented such parental consent.

The interval between the student’s announcement of his/her desire to leave and the possible presentation of the written consent will be used to attempt to dissuade the student from leaving and to resolve his/her problems so that he/she might continue in school and finish satisfactorily.

(cf. 5111 - Admission)

(cf. 5112 - Ages of Attendance)

(cf. 5113 - Admission/Excuses/Dismissal)

(cf. 5113.2 - Truancy)

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-184 Duties of parents as amended by PA 98-243 and PA 00-157.
>   * 10-199 through 10-202 Attendance, truancy - in general.

**Policy Adopted:  August 11, 2004**

**Revised:   November 3, 2010**

