## 5113.01 - Attendance and Excuses - Killingly High School

The faculty and administration of Killingly High School believe that class attendance is most important and requires that students attend all assigned classes and study halls.

Much of what a student learns and is graded on deals with facts, concepts and theories that are presented and discussed in class. In-class experiences cannot be duplicated outside of the classroom. In addition, other learning processes take place that may not be measurable, but are most important to the student’s overall growth and education. Some of these processes may involve the exchange of ideas and attitudes among class members, the interaction between individuals and a trained teacher, and the enrichment and supplementary experiences provided through a teacher’s expertise.

Since attending class is the only method for students to avail themselves of these kinds of learning experiences, absence from class has a direct effect on their education. Developing good attendance habits will also help prepare students to meet the expectations of future employers.

Students are, therefore, expected to attend classes for which they are registered each day that classes are in session. Excessive absences from class may result in loss of credit. Parents are expected to make prior arrangements for planned absences. When students have been absent from school for any reason, they are expected to complete all work assigned during their absence.

### Parents’/Guardians’ Responsibility

When a student is absent from class for illness, religious observance, or unforeseen emergency, the parent must inform the school by phone on the day of the absence and in writing within one school day of the absence. Failure to notify the school will result in a recorded unexcused absence.  Students who are 18 or older who do not live at home and who have filed with the office a verification of their legal and financial emancipation may provide their own written excuses.

Students absent three or more consecutive days must report to the nurse upon returning to school. All notes must include a telephone number at which the parent can be reached for verification between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m.

Any student who misses three or more classes per day will be considered absent for that day.

Credits which are earned through academic success may be withheld because of absences from school.

The following conditions will apply to this policy:

*  15 or more excused or unexcused absences in a full-year course (or 10 or more in a semester course) will result in the withholding of credit.

*  Students who surpass the 15-day limit may regain credit through a 30-day period of perfect attendance, with the exception of any emergency excused absences, as determined by the building administrator, and providing the 30 days are within the same school year.

*  Students whose absences exceed 15% of the 185 school days (27 absences) in one school year will not be granted credit.

*  Students who have credits withheld due to poor attendance and who do not exceed the 27-day limit, may have credit restored the subsequent year if, and only if, the number of absences fall within the 15-day limit for the subsequent year's attendance.

*  Quarterly, parents are informed of their child's attendance status if their child is in jeopardy of having their credits withheld.

*  Absences due to school suspensions, school-related activities court or legal obligations, religious holidays, and/or medical documented reasons are not included when determining credit status.

*  Withholding of credit does not imply that a student shall be removed from the course.

### Tardiness-Dismissal-Absence and Co-Curricular Activities

In order to be granted credit for a day in attendance, students who arrive late or who are dismissed early must be in attendance according to the guidelines outlined in the student handbook. Failure to comply with published guidelines will result in an absence and ineligibility to participate in co-curricular activities on that day.

Students who are absent from school for any reason may not participate in any co-curricular activities on the day of the absence. This includes such activities as dances, proms, drama, athletics and band/music events.

### Restoring Credit

A 30 day period of perfect attendance will restore lost credit providing the student has not missed more than 15% of the potential class meetings. This 30-day option for restoring credit is available only during the current school year. Students who do not complete a 30-day contract before the end of the current school year must complete a full school year without offending the attendance policy.

Students who lose credit in full year courses because of poor attendance may have credit restored by attending summer school providing the student has not missed more than 15% (27 days) of the class periods.

Students who have completed a course with a passing grade, yet have lost credit due to poor attendance, will not be required to repeat the course and may advance to the next level in a course sequence.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**
**Revised: June 8, 2016**

