## 5114.2 - Suspension From Interscholastic Athletics

### Definitions

1.  “Athletic Suspension” shall be defined as removal from further participation in a particular athletic program for a period not to exceed the duration of the playing season.

2.  “Emergency” shall be defined as a situation under which the continued presence of the student in the playing arena or school imposes such a danger to persons or property or such a disruption to the activity involved that a hearing may be delayed until a time as soon after the exclusion of such student as possible.

### Athletic Suspension

Because participation in interscholastic athletic programs is a special privilege distinct from basic academics a student may be subjected to an athletic suspension for violation of any of the following standards of conduct as well as for violations of standards cited under policy 5114.

1.  All CIAC eligibility rules will be strictly adhered to and enforced during the season.

2.  Academic requirements - all athletes must maintain at least a "C" average.  A student whose average is not at least "C" will be permitted to participate on probationary status for one marking period.  At the end of the probationary period, in order for the student to become eligible again, he/she must have attained an average of "C" or better.  Tutoring will be made available if a student or his family makes a request for such help.

3.  Drinking of alcoholic beverages or drug use or smoking - complete exclusion will result for the duration of that particular season from the team when ample proof is given at any time during the season.  In addition, the requirements specified in policy 5114 shall be followed concerning suspensions, or expulsion.

4.  Student Behavior - all athletes shall conduct themselves as good school and community citizens.  Unsatisfactory behavior may result in complete or partial suspension from the team.

5.  Team Conduct - all team members must show respect to their opponents, officials, coaches and spectators.  Abuse of this may result in complete or partial suspension from the team.

6.  Practice - no unexcused cuts from practice are permitted.  Violation of this rule may lead to complete or partial suspension.

7.  Equipment - all issued school equipment must be properly cared for by the athlete.  Athletes are responsible for all issued equipment, and financially responsible for any missing equipment.

8.  Attendance, day of game - players must attend school on the day of the game unless special permission from the coach, and/or athletic director, and/or Principal has been issued.  Violation of this rule will prohibit the player's participation in the athletic contest that day.

9.  A letter award is given to an athlete upon recommendation of the coach.  An athlete must be a member in good standing of the team at the conclusion of the season in order to qualify as a letter winner.

### Procedure for Athletic Suspension

1.  The administration of each school shall have the authority to invoke and athletic suspension for a period up to the duration of the playing season for one or more of the reasons stated in policy 5114 or paragraph b, above, in accordance with the procedure outlined in this paragraph.  The administration shall have the authority to immediately suspend any student when an emergency exists as that term is defined in paragraph A, above.

2.  Except in the case of an emergency, as defined in paragraph A, above, a student shall be given the opportunity to meet with the administration and to deny the stated charges prior to the effectuation of any period of athletic suspension.  If, at such a meeting the student denies the stated charges, he/she may at that time present his/her version of the incident(s) upon which the proposed athletic suspension is based.  The administration shall then determine whether or not an athletic suspension is warranted.  In determining the length of the athletic suspension the administration may receive and consider evidence of past academic or disciplinary problems which have led to removal from a classroom, in-school suspension, athletic suspension or expulsion.

3.  In the case of suspension, the administration shall notify the Superintendent of Schools within twenty-four (24) hours of the suspension as to the name of the student who has been suspended and the reason therefore.

(cf. 5114 - Suspension and Expulsion/Due Process)

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

