## 5117.1 - Intra-District Choice/Open Enrollment

The Board of Education (Board) endorses the neighborhood school concept and makes many decisions based on student population within the attendance areas of residence.  The Board recognizes, however, that students may wish to attend a school or participate in a program located in an area other than that of their assigned school.  Therefore, students shall be allowed to attend any school or participate in any program of their choice on a space available, first-come, first-served basis.  Students who previously opted for the NCLB public school choice may remain in the choice school through the highest grade in the school.

> Note:  Due to the NCLB waiver granted to Connecticut, Districts and schools are no longer required to offer public school choice based upon a school's failure to make AYP.

In implementing the open enrollment program, the District shall consider:

1.  Issues pertaining to the availability of space.

2.  The availability of programs.

3.  Eligibility criteria for participation in a particular program including age requirements, course prerequisites and required levels of performance.

Notwithstanding the provisions of this policy, a student may be assigned outside his attendance area by mutual agreement of the principals in the special interest of the student and/or school.

### Open Enrollment and Transfers

Students and their parents/guardians shall be notified on an annual basis of the options available through open enrollment in sufficient time to apply.  The Board, as required by statute, will also inform, at the middle and high school level, students and their parents/guardians of the availability of (1) vocational, technical and technological education and training at technical high schools, and (2) agricultural science and technology education at regional agricultural science and technology centers.

Students within a designated attendance area shall have priority in registering in that school.  Students may apply for open enrollment in a school outside their attendance area and such applications shall be approved if there is space available in the requested school and the application has been submitted on or before June 1 in accordance with the regulations accompanying this policy.

Parents and/or students who desire a change of school for the upcoming school year must submit a letter by June 1of the current school year with the required form requesting a transfer.  The request shall be reviewed and acted upon in accordance with the regulations accompanying this policy.

Students granted permission to attend a school other than the school in their assigned attendance area shall have the same curricular and extracurricular status as all other students attending the school.

Transfer students attending a school outside their attendance area shall be granted admission on a year-to-year basis.  However, as previously stated, a student attending a school as part of an NCLB public choice program may remain in the choice school through the highest level in that school.  In the event the population of the attendance area increases to fill the building with attendance area residents, transfer students may be asked to enroll in another school.  In the event the population of the attendance area increases to fill the building with attendance area residents, transfer students may be asked to enroll in another school.

### Transportation

Students who previously exercised the choice option under NCLB and are continuing such option shall/shall not be provided transportation at District expense.

> Note:  Under the waiver extended to Connecticut, the local District is not required to provide transportation to the choice school, but is encouraged to do so.

Transportation for students granted permission to attend school outside their attendance area must be furnished by their parents unless space is available in District buses without disruption of regular routes and loading areas (not including handicapped/special education buses and routes).
Intra-District Choice/Open Enrollment

### Nondiscrimination

The Board, the Superintendent, other administrators and teachers shall not make any distinction on account of race, color, ethnic group, gender, sexual orientation, sexual identity or expression, or religion of any student who may be in attendance or who seeks admission to any school maintained by the District in the determination or recommendation of action under this policy.

However, the Board reserves the right to restrict open enrollment and transfer requests if such requests begin to significantly affect the ethnic balance of a school.

### Special Education Students

Requests from the parents (or guardian) of a special education student for open enrollment or transfer to another school or program shall be considered in accordance with applicable state and federal laws.

(cf. [5117](5117.md) - School Attendance Areas)

(cf. 5145.14 - On-Campus Recruitment)

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-55 Pupils to attend regional school

* 10-226a Pupils of racial minorities

* 10-226b Existence of racial imbalance

* 10-226c Plan to correct imbalance

* 10-226d Approval of plan by State Board

* PA 96-213 An Act Concerning School Readiness and Intra-district Choice

* 20 U.S.C. - No Child Left Behind Act, P.L. 107-110, Section 1116.

* NCLB waiver granted to Connecticut by U.S. Department of Education, May 2012

* P.A. 12-116 An Act Concerning Educational Reform

**Policy adopted:  March 13, 2013**


1.  Attendance Areas

  Students will attend the District school determined by their residence unless a request to attend another school or program is approved.  No student will be enrolled in a school or program outside the attendance area without prior approval in accordance with these regulations.

  The Principal of each school will be responsible for checking student enrollment records to determine that each student is a legal resident of that school's attendance area or has an approved authorization for open enrollment or transfer.

  Students must register in the school serving their attendance area even though a request is pending for open enrollment or transfer.  Registration in the requested school will not be permitted until the student has received written approval for open enrollment or transfer.

2.  Open Enrollment

  Requests for open enrollment must be initiated by the parents/guardians by filing the approved form with the principal of the school which the student wishes to attend (receiving school).  The receiving school principal will notify the principal of the school in the student's attendance area of the disposition of the request.  Central administration of the school District shall also receive copies of related paperwork.

  Forms will be available in every school building and in the central administrative office.  The principal will explain to the parents/guardians the procedures used to process open enrollment requests.

  The receiving school principal will make the decision as to whether an open enrollment application is accepted or rejected based on criteria in state law and Board policy.  The receiving school principal will be responsible for notifying the parents/guardians and student of approval or disapproval of an open enrollment request no later than July 1st.

  The choice request may be denied if:

  a.  There is a lack of space or teaching staff within a particular program or school requested.

  b.  The school requested does not offer appropriate programs or is not structured or equipped with the necessary facilities to meet special needs of the student or does not offer a particular program requested.

  c.  The student does not meet the established eligibility criteria for participation in a particular program including age requirements, course prerequisites and required levels of performance.

  d.  A desegregation plan is in effect for the school District, and such denial is necessary in order to enable compliance with the desegregation plan.

  Upon enrollment at a school outside the attendance area, the student should plan to remain in that school for a full academic year.  Once a student is accepted under the open enrollment plan, every effort will be made to permit the student to complete the highest grade in that building subject to the right of residents of the attendance area. Students who previously exercised the NCLB choice option shall be permitted to remain in the choice school to complete the highest grade in that school.

  Students who wish to return to their home school or to open enroll in a different school must submit an open enrollment request in accordance with these regulations.

  Each principal will maintain a file of all open enrollment requests to that building. A copy will be forwarded to the central office for district-wide data collection purposes.

  Those students who apply for open enrollment and cannot be accepted at the time of application will be placed on a waiting list in the order in which the applications are received and will be considered for approval at a later date if space becomes available.  The waiting list will be maintained until July 1 of each year, after which a new waiting list will be developed for the next 12 months.

3.  Transfers

  The transfer process is available to allow flexibility in choice of school when the open enrollment deadline has passed and/or circumstances necessitate a change in school just prior to or during a school year.  All requests for attendance at a school outside a student's attendance area will be processed as transfers once the open enrollment deadline has passed.

  Requests for transfer must be initiated by the parents/guardians by filing the approved form with the principal of the school which the student wishes to attend (receiving school).  The receiving school principal will notify the principal of the school in the student's attendance area of the disposition of the request.

  Forms will be available in every school building and in the central administrative office.  The principal will explain to the parent/guardian the procedures used to process transfer requests.

  The receiving school principal will make the decision as to whether a transfer application is accepted or rejected based on the same criteria established in state and federal law and Board policy as used to consider open enrollment requests.  It may be appropriate under some circumstances to conditionally approve a transfer request.  The receiving school principal will be responsible for notifying the parents and students of approval or disapproval of a transfer request as soon as possible.

  Permission to transfer when granted will be for one academic year or the remainder of the year if the transfer occurs after the beginning of any school year.  Renewal of transfers is not automatic. (except as noted for the NCLB choice option previously chosen)

  Students who wish to return to their home school or to transfer to a different school must reapply for a transfer in accordance with these regulations.

  Each principal will maintain a file of all transfer requests to or from his/her building.  A copy will be forwarded to the central office for district-wide data collection purposes.

4.  Criteria to Determine Availability of Space or Teaching Staff

  Open enrollment and transfers within the District will be approved subject to space availability in the school requested contingent upon District class size guidelines and subject availability as determined by the receiving principal taking enrollment projections into consideration.  Students whose open enrollment or transfer requests have been approved will be assigned to classrooms on the basis of available staff and support services as well as the best use of classroom space.  Mobile units will not be taken into consideration when determining availability of classroom space.

  Requests for enrollment in particular programs will take into consideration the applicant's qualifications for the program.

  An open enrollment or transfer granted to one child in a family will not necessarily support the open enrollment or transfer of another child in the family.

5.  Continuing Enrollment Criteria

  Any student enrolled pursuant to this policy shall be allowed to remain enrolled in the school or program through the end of the school year unless:

  a.  the student is expelled from the school or program

  b.  the student's continued participation in the school or program, requires the District to make alterations in the structure of the school or to the arrangement or function of rooms

  c.  there is a lack of space or teaching staff

  d.  the school does not offer appropriate programs or is not equipped to meet the special needs of the student

  e.  the school does not offer a program requested by the student

  f.  the student does not meet established eligibility criteria

  g.  a desegregation plan is in effect and denial of continued enrollment is necessary to comply with the plan

  Students whose place of residence changes within the school District during the school year must complete transfer forms for record-keeping purposes.  Students will be required to attend the school of their new attendance area the following year unless application is made for open enrollment or transfer.

6.  Athletics

  Eligibility for participation in interscholastic athletics will be determined in accordance with the rules of the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletics Conference.

  Any student who enrolls in a school outside of the attendance area by falsifying the address forfeits eligibility to participate in athletic activities.

7.  Appeal Procedure

  Should a request for open enrollment or transfer be denied, the parent/guardian will be advised by the principal that they may appeal the denial by contacting the Superintendent.

  The principal shall immediately submit the reason for denial of the request, and the parent/guardian's request, to the administrator considering the appeal.  The administrator will review the parent/guardian request and the principal's decision and then make a determination of a school assignment.

  Upon request of either the principal or the parent/guardian, the Superintendent will review the decision of the administrator.  Upon request, the Board of Education will review the decision of the Superintendent.

**Regulation approved: March 13, 2013**

