## 5118.1 - Educational Rights of Services for Children & Youth Experiencing Homelessness

It is the policy of the Killingly Board of Education that students in homeless situations deserve access to the education and other services they need to ensure that they have an opportunity to meet the same challenging State academic achievement standards to which all students are held. Further, it is the Board's position that no child or youth shall be discriminated against nor stigmatized in this school district because of homelessness.

As defined by the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, homeless children and youth are those who “lack a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence,” including children and youth who:

*  Share the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason;

*  Live in motels, hotels, trailer parks, or camping grounds due to lack of alternative adequate accommodations;

*  Live in an emergency or transitional shelter;

*  Have been abandoned in a hospital;

*  Are awaiting foster care placement;

*  Have a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for, nor ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings;

*  Live in cars, parks, public spaces, abandoned buildings, substandard housing, bus or train stations, or similar settings; as well as

*  Migratory children who qualify as homeless because they are living in circumstances described above.

Killingly Public Schools will (1) work to ensure that children and youth in homeless situations have access to school and appropriate services, including but not limited to, transportation, Head Start and pre-school, school nutrition program, Title I, special education, English language acquisition, gifted and vocational programs, and other school and community services, as appropriate; (2) reduce school transfer and enhance educational stability by arranging, where feasible and requested, for the student to remain at his/her school of origin; (3) collaborate with community agencies to help strengthen parent choice and involvement in their child’s education; (4) ensure the educational rights of unaccompanied youth through enrollment assistance and facilitating access to programs and services; and (5) provide a process for resolving placement disputes, as required under the McKinney-Vento Act.

The Superintendent of Schools shall appoint a “district homeless liaison,” to coordinate and carry out local district responsibilities to its’ homeless children and youth, as well as to serve as liaison for State services under McKinney-Vento, and to ensure that the district complies with data collection requirements prescribed by federal regulations.

Legal References:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-253-(e) School privileges for children in certain placements, non resident children and children in temporary shelters.

* The McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. §§11431-11436

* Title I, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, 20 U.S.C. §§6311-6315

* The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. §§ 1400 et seq.

* April 6, 2002 Policy of the Child Nutrition Division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

To implement the policy and these regulations, the Superintendent of Schools shall appoint a “district homeless liaison,” as prescribed by federal law.

### Role of the Homeless Liaison

The district homeless liaison will ensure that:

*  Children and youth in homeless situations are identified by school personnel and through coordination activities with other entities, including shelters and community service agencies.

*  Children and youth enroll in, and have full and equal opportunity to succeed in, the schools of the LEA

*  Families, children, and youth receive educational services for which they are eligible, including Head Start and the pre-school programs administered by the district, and referrals to health, mental health, dental, and other appropriate services

*  Parents or guardians and unaccompanied youth are informed of educational and related opportunities available to their children, and are provided with meaningful opportunities to participate in the education of their children

*  Public notice of the educational rights of students in homeless situations is disseminated where children and youth receive services under the Act (such as schools, family shelters, and soup kitchens).

*  Enrollment disputes are mediated in accordance with the Enrollment Disputes section below.

*  Parents and guardians, and unaccompanied youth, are fully informed of all transportation services, including to the school of origin, and are assisted in accessing transportation services.

*  The liaison will collaborate and coordinate with state coordinators and community and school personnel responsible for the provision of education and related services to children and youth in homeless situations.

*  Inform school personnel, service providers, and advocates who work with families in homeless situations of the duties of the liaison.

### School Selection

*  Work with the director of transportation to assure, to the extent feasible, that students in homeless situations are provided the opportunity to continue their education in their school of origin (defined as the school attended when permanently housed, or the school in which they were last enrolled), unless it is against the parent's or guardian’s wishes. (See Transportation, below, for information on transportation to the school of origin.)

*  Students can remain in their school of origin the entire time they are homeless, and until the end of any academic year in which they move into permanent housing.

*  Students may also choose to enroll in any public school that students living in the same attendance area are eligible to attend.

*  If a student is sent to a school other than the school of origin or the school requested by a parent/guardian, the district will provide a written explanation of its decision and the right to appeal, whether or not the parent/guardian disputes the placement.

*  The homeless liaison will help unaccompanied youth (youth who are not in the physical custody of a parent or guardian) choose and enroll in a school, after considering the youth's wishes, and provide youth with notice of their right to appeal an enrollment choice that goes against their wishes.

### Enrollment

*  Killingly will immediately enroll students in homeless situations, even if they do not have required documents, such as school records, medical records, etc. The term “enroll” is defined as attending classes and participating fully in school activities.

*  Enrolling schools must obtain school records from the previous school, and students must be enrolled in school while records are obtained.

*  If a student does not have immunizations or immunization or medical records, the liaison will assist in obtaining them, and the student must be enrolled in school in the interim.

*  Schools must maintain records for students who are homeless so they are available quickly.

### Dispute Resolution

*  Whenever a dispute arises, the student must be admitted to the school of choice while the dispute is being resolved.

*  A written explanation of the school's decision must be provided if a parent, guardian, or unaccompanied youth disputes a school placement or enrollment decision.

*  The school will refer the student, parent, or guardian to the local homeless liaison to carry out the dispute resolution process as expeditiously as possible.

*  The liaison will ensure that this provision is followed for unaccompanied youth.

### Transportation

*  At a parent’s or guardian’s request, homeless students must be provided with transportation to and from their school of origin.

*  For unaccompanied youth, transportation to and from the school of origin must be provided at the liaison’s request.

*  If the student's temporary residence and the school of origin are in Killingly, then Killingly will provide transportation. If the student is living outside the school of origin’s district, the two districts will determine how to divide the responsibility and cost of providing transportation, or they may share the responsibility and cost equally.

*  In addition to providing transportation to the school of origin, Killingly will provide students in homeless situations with transportation services comparable to those provided to other students.

### Segregation

*  Homelessness alone is not sufficient reason to separate students from the mainstream school environment.

*  Killingly Public Schools will not segregate homeless students in separate schools, separate programs within schools, or separate settings within schools, except as is necessary for short periods of time for health and safety emergencies, or to provide temporary, special, and supplementary services.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

