## 5118 - Nonresident Attendance

The Superintendent of Schools may approve requests for student attendance in the district for children living outside the district under the following conditions:

1.  When the district of origin agrees to pay the cost per student for the education of that child in the district. Said cost shall equal the actual cost to provide the education to that student in the current school year.

2.  For a high school senior whose parents have moved out of the district during the school year.

3.  For a student who has less than two month’s of a school-year remaining and the parents have moved out of the district.

4.  When a child is placed in the school district by an appropriate state agency.

5.  For foreign exchange students when they are sponsored by a recognized foreign exchange student placement program and when approved by the Superintendent of Schools.

6.  At such other times as may be deemed appropriate by the Superintendent of Schools providing he/she notifies the Board of Education of the decision to allow a non-resident student to attend school in the district.

Permission shall be granted for non-resident students to attend the Killingly schools only when class enrollments in the district will permit the addition of the out of district students.

Transportation beyond that normally provided for students living in the district shall not be provided to non-resident-students.

This policy does not apply to districts which have a written agreement with the Board of Education for the attendance of their students or for students enrolled in the regional vocational agriculture program.

The Board of Education reserves the right to revoke any inter-district attendance agreement at any time.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-4a Educational interests of state defined (amended by PA 97-290, An Act Enhancing Educational Choices and Opportunities.
>   * 10-33 Tuition in towns in which no high school is maintained.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

