## 5121 - Examination/Grading/Rating

The Board of Education seeks, through performance objectives in its instructional program, to make achievement both recognizable and possible for students.

The issuance of grades on a regular basis serves to promote a process of continuous evaluation of student performance, to inform the student, the student's parents and counselor of his/her progress, and to provide a basis for bringing about change in student performance, if such change seems necessary.

Each student enrolled in grades 4, 6, 8, and 10 shall take a statewide mastery examination provided by and administered under the supervision of the State Board of Education.  Achievement of a satisfactory score on the mastery test shall not be required as the sole criterion for promotion or graduation.

(cf. 6146 - Graduation Requirements)

(cf. 6146.2 - Statewide Proficiency/Mastery Examinations)

(cf. 6180 - Evaluation of the Instructional Program)

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-14m Development and submission of educational evaluation and remedial assistance plans.  Contents of plan.
>   * 10-14n Statewide mastery examination.
>   * 10-14o Compensatory education grant.  Financial statement of expenditures.
>   * 10-14p Reports by local and regional boards re instructional improvement and student progress.
>   * 10-14q Exceptions. (Students to whom provisions do not apply.)
>   * 10-221a High school graduation requirements.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

