## 5123.2 - Course Work for Credit After Failure

One goal of schooling is mastery of course content and skills; every opportunity should be make available for students to demonstrate mastery.  The Board of Education "is committed to ensuring that all students are successful in meeting high learning standards \(Policy \# 5010\)," but it recognizes that situations arise in which a student may need additional time or more than one opportunity to demonstrate mastery in order to obtain a passing grade for a course.  The Board directs administration to develop credit recovery options for such students.

If there is a cost to the district for providing programs for credit recovery, the cost shall be shared with the family of the student in a ratio of 75% district\/25% family.  However, the Superintendent may waive all or part of the family's share when conditions warrant such special consideration.  Costs for tuition to outside programs \(e.g., college courses\) shall be borne solely by the family.

**Approved:  May 14, 2008**

---

### Credit Recovery

Intervention\/credit recovery sessions following the end of a course are intended to provide opportunities for eligible students to demonstrate mastery of skills not previously mastered during the course and recover credit they would not otherwise have earned.

### Eligibility

1. Students who have enrolled and attended a course at the high school that has been completed in the most recent school year.

  AND

2. Students who have made satisfactory effort \(as determined by the teacher\) to take advantage of available interventions during a semester or quarter, but have ended a course with an "I" \(incomplete\) or failure for one or more quarters.  These students would be students who have not satisfactorily completed one or more primary assessments, but in the judgment of the teacher, has the potential to master the material with further intervention.


The Guidance Department shall notify potentially eligible students \(as defined above\) and their parents of this opportunity upon submission of final class grades.  Students\/ parents must notify guidance of their interest in credit recovery options.  Students not deemed eligible may appeal to the Principal.

Primary Assessments: Summative evidence and\/or common assessments used as a basis for grading and reporting student achievement on essential course outcomes developed at the grade\/department level.

### Grading

1. The teacher who taught the eligible student requesting credit recovery will provide, within one week of the end of the course:

  a.  copies or descriptions of non-mastered assessments, common assessments or essential course outcomes;

  b.  the formula for calculating a final grade.


Final student grades should be submitted to the guidance office within one week following the end of the intervention\/credit recovery session.

### Credit

1. In order to earn credit, students must demonstrate mastery \(65% or higher\) on all non-mastered assessments.

### College Courses Or On-Line Courses

1. For the purposes of credit recovery, any student may, at his\/her expense, elect to take a college course or on-line courses.

2. Any non-Killingly High School course taken by students shall be reviewed to determine the equivalent number of high school credits.  Any such course must receive prior approval of the principal.


Regulation

**Approved:  May 14, 2008**

