## 5123 - Promotion/Acceleration/Retention

Because the Killingly Public Schools are dedicated to the best total and continuous development of each student enrolled, the certificated staff is expected to place students at a grade level best suited to them academically, socially, and emotionally. Students will normally progress annually from grade to grade or level to level. The district will establish and maintain the highest standards for each grade and monitor student performance in a continuous and systematic manner. Exceptions may be made when, in the judgment of administration, such exceptions are in the best educational interest of the students involved. Exceptions will always be made after prior notification and explanation to each student’s parent or guardian and in all cases the final decision will rest with school authorities.

The Board of Education recognizes that each child is an individual who develops at a pace which may be quicker or slower than any predetermined norm. As each child develops at his/her pace, it is incumbent upon the school to adjust wherever possible to meet the unique needs of each child. These adjustments should focus primarily upon modifications of the regular education environment but may include the assistance of remedial or special education programming.

In keeping with the best interest of the individual student, the Killingly Public Schools shall provide an objective and unified process for measuring the educational progress of each child. The decision to promote a student to the next grade shall be based on assessments that demonstrate successful completion of the curriculum, attendance, performance on CMT and CAPT state wide assessments and other testing instruments. Progress toward high school graduation shall be based on the student’s ability to pass the required subjects and electives necessary for graduation, meeting the credit distribution requirement. The student must also satisfactorily demonstrate the District’s performance graduation requirement, assessed in part by the Connecticut Academic Performance Test (CAPT). Students who have not successfully completed the assessment criteria shall participate in a course of student, designed to assist them attain a satisfactory level of competency before graduation.

If it becomes appropriate for a retention decision to be made for a child, it is in the best interest of all that a variety of factors: e.g.; previous retentions, chronological age, basic skill competence, academic potential, child and family attitudes toward retention, etc. be considered so a quality decision will be made.

> Legal Reference: 
>
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-221(b) Boards of education to prescribe rules.
>   * 10-265g Summer reading programs required for priority school districts. Evaluation of student reading level. Personal reading plans.
> * P.A. 99-288 An Act Concerning Education Accountability

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**
**Policy revised:  June 22, 2016**

---

### Kindergarten through Grade 8 - General Guidelines

As it is a goal of the Killingly Public Schools to promote students whenever possible, the schools must demonstrate that every reasonable effort has been made prior to retention to provide the necessary assistance to any student to avoid retention. This includes classroom modification, remedial assistance, and if necessary, special education intervention. Teachers are expected to include instructional and programmatic modification as soon as the student’s progress begins to deviate significantly from grade level expectations.

Prior to a teacher recommending a child be considered for retention, the teacher must demonstrate that other forms of intervention have been considered, implemented and proven unsuccessful.

A decision on retention will be made considering the following factors: previous retention, chronological age, basic skill competence, academic potential, family and child attitudes toward retention, and other criteria as may be deemed appropriate by the school administration.

Normally, no child will be retained more than once during grade K through 8.

The educational program for a retained student for the following school year is to be structured in a way that will offer a greater chance for learning success. The revised program should reflect a comprehensive analysis of those educational factors that might have contributed to the retention.

Retention is never to be considered a punishment.

Except in the most unusual of circumstances retention would only be considered in grades K through 3.

Exceptions to this rule may be made only by the Superintendent of Schools.

### Consideration for Retention

"Consideration for Retention" shall be a category in which a student is placed by his/her teacher in consultation with administration when, in the opinion of the teacher and administrator, there is a reasonable possibility the student will not be able to progress to the next grade level. "Consideration for Retention" should be made prior to February 1 so the parents can be made an integral part of the decision-making process. "Teachers who request a child be placed in the "Consideration for Retention" category must complete a form which indicates:

(a)  reasons why the child is being considered for retention;

(b)  evidence of contacts with parents;

(c)  alternate strategies implemented by the teacher and/or summer school or online curriculum (where applicable); and

(d)  other information deemed appropriate by, the building administration.

At the time school officials place a child in the category "consideration of retention", the parents of the student in question are to be contacted. Administrators shall invite the parents/guardians to discuss the possible retention. A written plan of action delineating the problems and proposed recommendations shall be prepared and forwarded to all interested parties. This education plan shall be as specific as possible. The goal is to identify the potential for retention at the earliest possible date in the school year and to marshal all available assistance (parental, student, and school) to avoid the necessity of this action.

Administrators are expected to maintain a list of all students in the category "consideration of retention".

### Grades 9 to 12

Students are promoted by units of credit in accordance with the following requirements:

#### Credit Requirements

Freshmen will require 4 credits to be promoted to sophomore, sophomores will require 12 credits to be promoted to juniors, and juniors will require 18 credits to be promoted to seniors.

Any student who has not met grade level requirements is ineligible to enroll in study hall, and may enroll in credit recovery through summer courses and/or distance learning. Consideration for retention shall be the same as those listed for K-8.

#### Performance Graduation Requirements

Students must satisfactorily demonstrate proficiency in each Performance Graduation Requirement and their attendance learner outcomes in order to be eligible for graduation. Every effort shall be made to assist students in meeting the standards for each of the graduation requirements.

### Final Decision

The decision regarding grade placement rests with the building Principal. This decision shall be made weighing all significant factors.

Parents may appeal a decision of the Principal to the Superintendent of Schools.

(cf. 5123.2 - Course Work for Credit After Failure)

(cf. 6172.6 - Distance Learning and Virtual/Online Classes)

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-221(b) Boards of Education to prescribe rules.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**
**Regulation revised:   June 22, 2016**

