## 5124 - Reporting to Parents

The Board of Education encourages good communication between parent and teacher and shall promote frequent and varied reporting contacts. All forms and methods of communications, such as parent-teacher conferences, mail, telephone, and school visitation by parents will be utilized.

### Report Card

Written reports on student progress will be issued to parents every nine weeks. The reporting dates will be determined annually and placed on the school calendar. Parents will be advised no later than the third reporting period of a student's potential failure and the possibility of having to repeat a grade or a course.

Teachers also will report on student progress at regularly scheduled parent conferences.

### Warning Notices

Student progress reports may be sent any time between marking periods to parents/guardians of students who need some type of special attention. These reports do not necessarily mean that a student is failing, but a deficiency is noted which needs correction. Acknowledgment of this report by a note, phone call or visit by the parent or guardian is advisable.

If the parents of a child are separated or divorced, both parents will have the right to be informed of their child's progress in school unless there is an order from the court to the contrary. To receive written reports and notification of conferences, a non-custodial parent will make such request to the school principal.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-15b Access of parent or guardian to student's records.
>   * 46b-56 Access to records of minor children by non-custodial parent.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

