## 5125 Form 1 - Sample Notification of Rights Under FERPA

Dear Parent or Student:

The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords parents and students over 18 years of age ("eligible students") certain rights with respect to the student's education records.  They are:

1.  The right to inspect and review the student's education records within 45 days of the day the district receives a request for access.

  Parents or eligible students should submit to the school principal (or appropriate school official) a written request that identifies the record(s) they wish to inspect.  The principal will make arrangements for access and notify the parent or eligible student of the time and place where the records may be inspected.

2.  The right to request the amendment of the student's education records that the parent or eligible student believes are inaccurate or misleading.

  Parents or eligible students may ask school district to amend a record that they believe is inaccurate or misleading.  They should write the school principal, clearly identify the part of the record they want changed, and specify why it is inaccurate or misleading.

  If the district decides not to amend the record as requested by the parent or eligible student, the district will notify the parent or eligible student of the decision and advise them of their right to a hearing regarding the request for amendment.  Additional information regarding the hearing procedures will be provided to the parent or eligible student when notified of the right to a hearing.

3.  The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent.

  One exception which permits disclosure without consent is disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests.  A school official is a person employed by the district as an administrator, supervisor, instructor, or support staff member (including health or medical staff and law enforcement unit personnel).

  A school official has a legitimate educational interest if the official needs to review an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional responsibility.

  Upon request, the district discloses education records without consent to officials of another school district in which a student seeks or intends to enroll.  (Note:  FERPA requires a school district to make a reasonable attempt to notify the student of the records request unless it states in its annual notification that it intends to forward records on request.)

4.  The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the district to comply with the requirements of FERPA.  The name and address of the office that administers FERPA is:

  ```
  Family Policy Compliance Office
  U.S. Department of Education
  400 Maryland Avenue
  SW  Washington DC  20202-4605
  ```

> Note:  In addition, a school may want to include its directory notice as required by FERPA regulations with its annual notification of rights under FERPA.

