## 5126 - Awards for Achievement

The Board of Education encourages the professional staff to maintain a set of criteria and procedures for presenting letters or other suitable awards to students for scholarship and distinguished service in any school activity. In all cases, the relationship between the award and the relevant goal or goals of the schools should be pointed out.

The professional staff is authorized to review and approve, or reject, proposed trophies, prizes, scholarships or other awards from non-school donors. Acceptance will require affirmative answers to at least the following questions:

1. Can the proposed award be considered free from motives of personal or corporate gain and publicity?

2. Are the criteria for making the award under the control of the professional staff, or acceptable to the staff?

3. Are the purposes, either implied or explicit, of the proposed award consistent with out schools’ goals?


**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

### Honor Roll - Killingly High School

Honor Roll is computed at the close of each grade reporting quarter and is divided into three categories:

* High Honors:   all A’s \(including A-\)

* First Honors:    all A’s and no more than two B’s \(including B- and B+\)

* Second Honors:  all A’s, B’s and one C \(including C- and C+\)


Students must be enrolled and receive a letter grade in at least five courses to be eligible for the Honor Roll. Physical education grades are not used to establish Honor Roll status. However, an “F” in physical education will exclude the recipient of the grade from consideration for the Honor Roll. Partial-day students must be enrolled in at least four courses to be considered for the Honor Roll.

### Honor Roll – Killingly Intermediate School

Honor Roll is prepared after each marking period. To qualify for the Killingly Intermediate School Honor Roll, a student must not have any unsatisfactory \(U\) conduct or effort grades and fulfill the academic criteria.

* High Honors:   all A’s \(including A-\)

* General Honors:  all A’s and no more than two B’s \(including B- and B+\)

* Honorable Mention:  all A’s, B’s and one C \(including C- and C+\)


**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

