## 5131.111 - Video Surveillance, Including Audio Coverage

The Board of Education recognizes the district's responsibility to maintain order and discipline on school property and in school vehicles.  The Board also desires to afford students and staff privacy in respect to the records maintained by the district.  The Board recognizes the value of electronic surveillance systems in monitoring activity on school property and in school vehicles in furtherance of protecting the health, welfare and safety of its students and staff.  The students and staff of the district recognize that their security and safety depends upon the capacity of the district to maintain discipline and that a certain amount of restraint upon the activities of students is assumed and expected.

The Board of Education having carefully weighed and balanced the rights of privacy of students and staff against the district's duty to maintain order and discipline, finds that it is appropriate to provide for the use of video camera surveillance in its transportation vehicles and on school grounds as follows:

1.  The district shall notify its students and staff that video surveillance, including audio, may occur on any school property or on any transportation vehicle.  The district shall incorporate said notice in the student handbook;

2.  The use of surveillance equipment on transportation vehicles shall be supervised by the district transportation supervisor.  The use of surveillance equipment on school grounds and on other district property shall be supervised and controlled by the building administrator or other responsible administrator;

3.  The use of recordings from surveillance equipment shall be subject to the other policies of the district including policies concerning the confidentiality of student and personnel records;

4.  Surveillance shall only be used to promote the order, safety and security of students, staff and property.

> Legal Reference:  
> 
> * Title I - Amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Act. (PL 105-17)
> * Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, sec. 438, 20 U.S.C. sec. 1232g (1988).

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

