## 5131.61 - Inhalant Abuse

In addition to the prohibitions pertaining to alcohol, drugs and tobacco contained in Board policy \#5131.6, Alcohol, Drugs and Tobacco, no student shall inhale, ingest, apply, use or possess an abusable glue, aerosol paint or substance containing a volatile chemical with intent to inhale, ingest, apply or use any of these in a manner:

1. Contrary to directions for use, cautions or warnings appearing on a label of a container of the glue, paint aerosol or substance; and

2. Designed to affect the central nervous system, create or induce a condition of intoxication, hallucination or elation, or change, distort, or disturb the person’s eyesight, thinking process balance or coordination.


For purposes of this policy,  inhalants are defined as follows: \(Optional\)

* Nitrous Oxide - Laughing Gas, Whippets,  CO2 Cartridge

* Amyl Nitrite - “Locker Room,”  “Rush,” “Poppers,” “Snappers”

* Butyl Nitrite - “Bullet,”  “Climax”

* Chlorohydrocarbons - Aerosol Paint Cans, Cleaning Fluids

* Hydrocarbons - Aerosol Propellants, Gasoline, Glue, Butane


Further, no student, 18 years of age or older, shall intentionally, knowingly or recklessly deliver or sell potentially abusable inhalant materials as listed above to a minor student.

No person shall intentionally use or possess with intent to use inhalant paraphernalia to inhale, ingest, or otherwise introduce into the body an abusable glue, aerosol paint or substance or other substance that contains a volatile chemical.

Students who violate this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including suspension and a recommendation for expulsion. Violators of this policy may also be required to complete an appropriate rehabilitation program.

The Board of Education shall incorporate into the curriculum at all levels education pertaining to potential inhalant abuse which is appropriate for students given their age, maturity, and grade level. Inhalant abuse educational programs/information for parents/guardians will be offered in a manner convenient to parents/guardians.

\(cf. [5131.6](/policies/5000/5131-6.md) - Alcohol, Drugs and Tobacco\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 21a-240 Definitions, dependency producing drugs.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

