## 5131.2 - Assault

Student fights are a disruption to the regular school program and will not be tolerated. Thus, all fights, whether or not they involve actual violation of the laws relative to assault, will be reportable to law enforcement authorities.  Due to the no tolerance policy for fighting at the high school, all students who voluntarily engage in fighting will also be subject to suspension.

An attack on a teacher is a matter of grave concern and will be immediately reported to law enforcement authorities.  Student\(s\) determined in the investigation to have been involved will be suspended. If no extenuating circumstances are uncovered, it will be recommended that expulsion proceedings be initiated.

\(cf. 5114 - Suspension/Expulsion\)

\(cf. 5144 - Discipline/Punishment\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-221 Boards to prescribe rules.
>   * 52-572 Parental liability for torts of minors. Damage defined.
>   * 53a-18 Use of reasonable physical force or deadly physical force generally.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

The Board of Education recognizes that there are certain behaviors that, if tolerated, would quickly destroy the type of learning environment to which the students and staff are entitled within this school system. These behaviors, categorized as violent and aggressive, will not be tolerated and shall result in immediate action by the school system.

All acts of violence and aggression, including, but not limited to, terroristic acts and/or threats, shall result in specific consequences, determined by the seriousness of the act, including suspension from school and consideration of expulsion from school by the Board of Education for acts of a serious or chronic nature.

Acts of violence and aggression must be well-documented and communicated to the school principal or his/her designee. The Superintendent of Schools is to be notified immediately of all acts pertaining to possession, threat with, or use of a weapon; physical assaults; stalking; and terroristic threats or acts. The Board of Education will be informed and involved where deemed necessary by the Superintendent or where required by law. The immediate involvement of the parent\(s\) or guardians\(s\) is viewed as essential.

Serious consideration is to be given to the involvement of appropriate law enforcement agencies and other agencies in such cases. The police shall be involved if there is any violation of the law.

The following behaviors are defined as violent and aggressive.

### Possession, Threat With, or Use of a Weapon or Dangerous Instrument

Weapon or Dangerous Instrument includes, but is not limited to, any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, air gun or spring gun; slingshot; bludgeon; brass knuckles or artificial knuckles of any kind; knives, any knife the blades of which can be opened by a flick of a button or pressure on the handle, or any pocket knife where the blade is carried in a partially opened position; martial arts weapon; destructive device; or facsimiles of firearms.

> Firearms, weapons, and dangerous instruments shall include those defined by law.\(18 U.S.C. 921, C.G.S. 53a-3, and 53-202 to 53-206, and 29-35\)

Possession is defined as having a weapon or dangerous instrument on one's person, or in an area subject to one's control, in any school building on school grounds, in any school vehicle, or at any school-sponsored activity. A student's conduct off school grounds that is seriously disruptive of the educational process and violative of the Board's publicized policies shall also be considered for disciplinary action by school officials under this policy. A student found to be in possession and/or use of a firearm or dangerous weapon as defined above shall be subject to expulsion of one calendar year.

> Note:  A student who finds a firearm, weapon or dangerous instrument and immediately advises a teacher or other adult, shall not be considered in possession of such device. Students who find firearms, weapons or dangerous instruments are advised to seek adult assistance and are advised not to touch the weapon.

### Physical Assault

Physical assault is the act of striking or touching a person or that person's property with a part of the anatomy or any object, with the intent of causing hurt or harm.

### Verbal Abuse

Verbal abuse shall include but is not limited to swearing, screaming, obscene gestures or threats when directed, either orally, including the telephone or in writing, at an individual, his/her family or a group.

### Intimidation

Intimidation is an act intended to frighten or coerce someone into submission or obedience.

### Extortion

Extortion is the use of verbal or physical coercion in order to obtain financial or material gain from others.

### Bullying

Bullying is the use of physical or verbal coercion to obtain control over others or to be habitually cruel to others who are assumed to be weaker.

### Gangs

Gangs are groups of youths who share common beliefs, attitudes, and attire and exhibit unlawful and anti-social behavior.

### Terroristic Threats

Terroristic threat is a threat to commit violence communicated with the intent to terrorize another, to cause evacuation of a building, or to cause serious public inconvenience, in reckless disregard of the risk causing such terror or inconvenience.

### Terroristic Act

Terroristic act is an offense against property or involving danger to another person or persons.

### Sexual Harassment

Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, whether verbal or physical, including, but not limited to, insulting or degrading sexual remarks or conduct; threats or suggestions that a student's or staff member's submission to or rejection of unwelcome conduct will in any way influence a decision regarding that student or staff member; or conduct of a sexual nature which substantially interferes with a student's learning; or staff member's performance of duties, or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive learning or working environment, such as the display in the educational setting of sexually suggestive objects or pictures.

### Stalking

Stalking is the persistent following, contacting, watching or any other such threatening actions that compromise the peace of mind or the personal safety of the individual.

### Defiance

Defiance is the act or instance of defying or opposing; insubordination.

### Violent and Aggressive Behavior

### Racial Slurs

Racial slurs are insulting, disparaging or derogatory comments made directly or by innuendo regarding a person's racial origin.

\(cf. 5114 - Suspension and Expulsion/Due Process\)

\(cf. 5130 - Student Conduct\)

\(cf. [5131.7](/policies/5000/5131-7.md) - Weapons and Dangerous Instruments\)

\(cf. [5141.5](/policies/5000/5141-5.md) - Crisis Management\)

\(cf. [5141.6](/policies/5000/5141-6.md) - Safety\)

\(cf. 5144 - Discipline/Punishment\)

\(cf. 5144.2 - Use of Physical Force\)

\(cf. [5144.3](/policies/5000/5144-3.md) - Discipline of Students with Disabilities\)

\(cf. [5145.12](/policies/5000/5145-12.md) - Search and Seizure\)

\(cf. [5145.5](/policies/5000/5145-5.md) - Sexual Harassment\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 4-176e through 4-180a. Contested Cases. Notice. Record.
>   * 10-233a through 10-233f. Suspension, removal and expulsion of students, as amended by PA 95-304 and PA 96-244.
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.
>   * 53a-3 Definitions.
>   * 53a-217b Possession of firearms and deadly weapons on school grounds.
>   * 53-206 Carrying and sale of dangerous weapons.
> 
> * Constitution of the State of Connecticut, Article I, Section 20.
> * PA 94-221 An Act Concerning School Discipline and Safety.
> * GOALS 2000: Educate America Act, Pub. L. 103-227.
> * 18 U.S.C. 921 Definitions.
> * Title III - Amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. Sec. 314 \(Local Control Over Violence\).
> * Elementary and Secondary Act of 1965 as amended by the Gun Free Schools Act of 1994.
> * PL 105-17 The Individuals with Disabilities Act, Amendment of 1997.
> * Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VII, 42 U.S.C.
> * Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Policy Guidance \(N-915.035\) on Current Issues of Sexual harassment, effective 10/15/88.
> * Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, CFR Section l06 Meritor Savings Bank. FSB v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57 \(1986\).

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

