## 5131.4 - School Ground Disturbances

To insure the orderly process of education and business affairs connected with the schools and the safety of persons and property, the Board of Education directs that this policy be followed in case of any type of disruptive demonstration on school property or within school buildings.

This policy is not intended to discourage or prohibit the peaceful expression of opinions or ideas concerning the schools of Killingly.  However, since the Board is required by law to provide proper school facilities and to maintain an appropriate program of instruction, and is further required to bar any disruption of the schools or interference with their normal operation, the following steps shall be taken in the event of any disruption of the normal operations of the schools.

1. The disruption shall be immediately brought to the attention of the Superintendent or his/her representative by the administrative head of the school. The Superintendent shall have the authority at his/her discretion to alert the police authorities.

2. Students participating in a disruptive demonstration shall be directed by the building administrator or representative to go to their regular classroom assignment. At the time, the administrator or representative will arrange for a meeting between the administration and the individuals, leaders of a group, or the group, if feasible, to discussing a rational, orderly manner the problem which has caused disorder.

3. Non-student demonstrators and other unauthorized persons will be directed by the building administrator or his/her representative to remove themselves from school property forthwith.

4. In the event steps 2 and/or 3 fail to stop the demonstration, the Superintendent or his/her representative will ask the police to remove the demonstrators and any individuals failing to comply under step 3.

5. When necessary for their safety, students and staff may be directed to leave the building and school property.

6. At no time, while any demonstration is in process, is the Superintendent or any school personnel or Board of Education member to enter into negotiations on the issues with the protesters, either orally or in written form.

7. As soon as normal educational and business processes can be resumed, the Superintendent shall be charged with establishing communications with the leaders of the protesting group in order to resolve their requests or to refer them to the Board of Education in an orderly manner.

8. Student participants and/or school employees joining students in a disruptive demonstration on school grounds will be subject to suspension.


\(cf. 5114 - Suspension/Expulsion\)

\(cf. 5131 - Student Conduct\)

\(cf. [5131.5](/policies/5000/5131-5.md) - Vandalism\)

\(cf. 5144 - Discipline/Punishment\)

\(cf. 5145 - Civil and Legal Rights & Responsibilities\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-233a -10-233f suspension and Expulsion.
>   * 10-233g Boards to report school violence. Reports of  Principals to police authority.
>   * 10-235  Indemnification of teachers, Board members and employees in damage suits; expenses of litigation.
>   * 10-236a Indemnification of educational personnel assaulted in the line of duty.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

