## 5131.11 - Video Cameras on School Buses

The Board of Education recognizes the district's continuing responsibility to maintain and improve discipline, and ensure the health, welfare and safety of its staff and students on school transportation vehicles.

The Board of Education after having carefully weighed and balanced the rights of privacy of students and staff with the district's duty to ensure discipline, health, welfare and safety of staff and students on school transportation vehicles supports the use of video cameras on its transportation vehicles.

Video cameras, including audio coverage, may be used to monitor student behavior on school transportation vehicles transporting students to and from school and extracurricular activities.

Students in violation of district conduct rules shall be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with established Board of Education policy and administrative regulations governing student conduct and discipline.

The district shall comply with all applicable state and federal laws related to video recordings when, as determined by the district and in accordance with law, such recordings are considered for retention as a part of the student's behavioral record.  Such records will also be subject to established district student records procedures including access, review and release of such records.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-221 Boards of Education to prescribe rules
> * Title I - Amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Act. (PL 105-17)
> * Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

