## 5131.8 - Out-of-School Misconduct

Students are subject to discipline, up to and including suspension and expulsion for misconduct, which is seriously disruptive of the educational process or is a violation of a publicized policy of the Board of Education, even if such misconduct occurs off-school property and during non-school time.

In compliance with judicial decisions, the Board considers conduct which is “severely disruptive of the educational process” to mean conduct that “markedly interrupts or severely impedes the day-to-day operations of a school” in addition to such conduct also being violative or publicized school policy. Such conduct includes, but is not limited to, phoning in a bomb threat, or making a threat, off school grounds, to kill or hurt a teacher or student.

In addition, in making the determination as to whether conduct is “seriously disruptive of the educational process, “the administration may consider, but such consideration shall not be limited to (1) whether the incident occurred within close proximity of a school; (2) whether other students from the school were involved or whether there was any gang involvement; (3) whether the conduct involved violence, threats of violence or the unlawful use of a weapon, as defined in section 29-38 and whether any injuries occurred; and (4) whether the conduct involved the use of alcohol. The Board of Education or impartial hearing Board, in matters of expulsion for out of school misconduct, in making a determination as to whether conduct is “seriously disruptive of the educational process,” may consider, but consideration is not limited to the same items listed previously.

Such discipline may result whether; (1) the incident was initiated in the school or on school grounds, or (2) if the incident occurred or was initiated off-school property, either during school time or non-school time, and after the occurrence there was a reasonable likelihood that return of the student would contribute to a disruptive effect on the school education or its process by threatening:

1.  The school’s orderly operations, or

2.  The safety of the school property, or

3.  The welfare of the persons who work or study there.

Examples of the type of such out-of-school/off school property misconduct that may result in such discipline include but are not limited to:

1.  Use, sale, possession or distribution of a firearm, deadly weapon, dangerous instrument, or dangerous weapon, (C.G.S. Section 53a-3, 53-206,29-35), or

2.  Use, sale, possession or distribution of illegal drugs/substances, or

3.  Violent conduct,

4.  Making of a bomb threat,

5.  Threatening to harm or kill another student or member of the staff.

Where any such activity has the reasonable likelihood of threatening the health, safety or welfare of school property, individuals thereon, and/or the educational process.

For example, if it is determined that a student’s use, sale, possession or distribution of illegal drug/substances in the community has a reasonable likelihood of endangering the safety of students or employees because of the possibility of such sales in the school, or if violent conduct in the community presents a reasonable likelihood of repeating itself in the school environment, or if any similar type of misconduct in the community has a reasonable likelihood of being continued or repeated in school or if bringing retaliation or revenge into the school for such out-of-school/off-school grounds misconduct, the Board of Education may impose discipline up to and including suspension and/or expulsion in accordance with its policy #5114. The rationale to be applied in considering disciplinary action is whether the off-school grounds conduct will markedly interrupt or severely impede the day-to-day operation of a school.

A student found to be in possession of a firearm or deadly weapon shall be expelled for one calendar year unless said expulsion is modified on an individual case basis.

If the Board of Education or hearing board finds that the student did so possess a firearm or weapon such student shall be expelled for one (1) calendar year provided that the Board of Education or hearing board may modify the period of expulsion on a case by case basis.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 4-176e through 4-185 Uniform Administrative Procedure Act.
>   * 10-233a through 10-233f re in-school suspension, suspension, expulsion. (as amended by PA 98-139)
>   * 29-35 Carrying of pistol or revolver without permit prohibited.
>   * 29-38 Weapons in vehicles.
>   * 53a-3 Firearms and deadly weapons.
>   * 53-206 Carrying and sale of dangerous weapons.
>   * 53a-217b Possession of firearms and deadly weapons on school grounds.
> * PA 94-221 An Act Concerning School Safety.
> * 18 U.S.C. 921 Definitions.
> * PL 103-382 Elementary and Secondary Education Act. (Sec. 14601 - Gun Free Requirements: Gun Free School Act of 1994)
> * PA 95-304 An Act Concerning School Safety.
> * PA 96-244 An Act Concerning Revisions to the Education Statutes.
> * Kyle P. Packer PPA Jane Packer v. Thomaston Board of Education. (SC 15862

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

