## 5131.6 - Alcohol, Drugs, and Tobacco

### Alcohol and Drug Use

1.  The use, possession and or sale of alcoholic beverages and drugs is forbidden on all school property. This prohibition applies to all students participating in all officially sanctioned school activities wherever they are conducted, or in certain cases includes violations occurring off school grounds. This prohibition includes transportation to and from such activities on school buses and/or other officially sanctioned transportation facilities. Discipline up to and including expulsion may, and in some cases shall, be applied for violations of the above at the discretion of the Board of Education.

2.  Recognizing that drug use and abuse may be indicative of serious underlying problems, every effort will be made to offer a student help and assistance, including early identification, referral for treatment and aftercare support. Disciplinary procedures will be administered with the best interest of the student, school population and community in mind.

3.  The Killingly Public Schools staff, in cooperation with local law enforcement officials, will work collectively in an effort to help students understand the serious legal, social, and medical consequences associated with alcohol and drug abuse.

4.  School personnel will apply the following terms and articles, or combinations thereof, in enforcing these policies.

### Use of Tobacco Prohibited

1.  The use, possession, distribution and/or sale of tobacco or tobacco products shall not be allowed within school buildings, buildings owned or used by the Board of Education, school grounds or grounds owned or used by the Board of Education, and in vehicles owned or used by the Board of Education and in private or commercial vehicles located on the grounds of any facility owned or used by the Board of Education. This prohibition applies to all Killingly Public Schools students attending and/or participating in all officially sanctioned school activities on or off school property.

2.  Flagrant and habitual violations of this policy/regulation will not and cannot be tolerated.

Legal References:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 1-21b Smoking prohibited in certain places.  Signs Required. Penalties. (as amended by P.A. 87-201)

* 10-154a Professional communication between teacher or nurse and student. Surrender of physical evidence obtained from students.

* 10-221(d) Board of Education to prescribe rules (as amended by P.A. 87-499, Sec. 14)

* 21a-240 (8) Definition - Controlled Drugs

* 21a-240 (9) Definition - Controlled Substances

* 21a-240 (20) (a) Definition - Drug Paraphernalia

* 21a-240 (30) Definition - narcotic Substances

* 21a-240 (49) Definition - Restricted Drugs

* 30-1 (3) Definition - Alcoholic Liquor

* 53-344 Sale of Tobacco to Minors Under-Eighteen (as amended by P.A. 87-374)

* 53-344a Sale of Tobacco. Proof of Age

* PA. 96-244 An Act Concerning Revisions To The Education Statutes.

**Policy adopted:  June 8, 1988**

**Policy revised:**

* February 7, 1990

* December 14, 1994

* February 12, 1997

* April 9, 1997

* April 10, 2002

* September 12, 2002

* August 11, 2004

1. Definition of Terms

  a.  Confidentiality - Any professional employee shall not be required to disclose any information acquired through a professional communication with a student, when such information concerns alcohol or drug abuse or any alcoholic or drug problem of such student. However, official actions taken by school personnel in regard to the enforcement of this policy may include communication with the police and may be subject to laws regarding public information. Any such professional employee who, in good faith, discloses or does not disclose, such professional communication, shall be immune from any liability, civil or criminal, which might otherwise be incurred or imposed, and shall have the same immunity with respect to any judicial proceeding which results from such disclosure. (See CGS Section 10-154a).

  b.  Confiscation - When there is reasonable grounds to believe that a student is in possession of drugs, there is an obligation on the part of school personnel to search for and seize drugs. Such search and seizure may involve school lockers, cars on school property, clothing, purses, book bags, books and other personal property. Reasonable efforts will be made to secure the student’s voluntary cooperation and agreement to the search and to have the student present at the time of the search. All confiscated drugs will be turned over to the police pursuant to CGS Section 10 - 1 54a.

  c.  Distribution and/or Sale - Including any form of delivery to others, dispensing, giving out for renumeration or for free to distribute for monetary or other consideration or gain.

  d.  Drugs - Any alcoholic liquor, controlled drug, controlled substance, narcotic substance, restricted drug, prescribed medications for which the student does not have a prescription from a licensed practitioner, or any other unlawful or prohibited substance.

  e.  Drug Paraphernalia - Equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use or designed for use in producing, processing, preparing, testing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing or concealing, or injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body and drug or drugs listed in this section. (See CGS Section 21a-240 (20)A).

  f.  Hearing Before the Board of Education - Such a hearing is usually for consideration of a recommendation for expulsion of the student. (See CGS Section 10-233d).

  g.  Possession - Articles in the custody or control of the student, on the person or within the personal effects of the student including but not limited to school lockers, cars on school property, clothing, purses, book bags, books and other personal property.

  h.  Professional Communication - Any communication made privately and in confidence by a student to a professional employee of such student's school in the course of the latter’s employment.

  i.  Professional Employee - A person employed by a school who holds a certificate from the State Board of Education, is a member of a faculty where certification is not required, is an administration officer of a school, or is a registered nurse employed by or assigned to a school.

2.  Situation I

  A student seeks drug related assistance or advice for himself/herself or a friend from a staff member.

  a.  Immediate Action - Staff members involved shall inform the student of the availability of professional assistance (school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, school social worker, or other community agency) and his/her rights in receiving assistance and shall encourage the student to seek help.

  b.  Investigation - Not applicable.

  c.  Notification of Parent/Guardians - Only upon written consent of the student.

  d.  Confidentiality - To be maintained unless the safety of the student or others requires consultation with a school administrator. The staff member and school administrator shall consider confidentiality as it relates to CGS Section 10-154a.

  e.  Disposition of Substance - Not applicable.

  f.  Follow-up Action - Monitoring by staff member(s) or, where appropriate, referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  The assigned school employee who makes the assessment shall refer the student and his/her family to a community based agency which provides appropriate services for drug and alcohol education, prevention and treatment.

  g.  Disciplinary Procedure - None

  h.  Notification of Police - Not appropriate

3.  Situation II

  A student demonstrates symptoms of possible drug overdose (staggering, slurred speech, incoherence, dazed appearance, inability to respond, vomiting, unconsciousness) or disrupts a school function by acutely abnormal or bizarre personality display. Such behavior may be emotionally, organically or chemically induced or an immediate explanation as to cause may not be possible. This situation will be handled as a MEDICAL EMERGENCY.

  a.  Immediate Action - Staff member shall immediately inform the school administrator of his/her designee and the school nurse. All standard health and first aid procedures will be followed. The student shall not be left alone.

  b.  Investigation - If drug use is suspected, the school administrator or his/her designee shall be responsible for initiating investigation procedures normally employed when a student is apprehended for drug use or possession. Investigation shall include the following procedures:

    (1)  On all alleged violations of this regulation, the student involved shall be brought, as soon as is possible under the circumstances, to the school administrator or his/her designee. Such administrator or designee shall attempt to have an advocate of the student present while questioning the student. The administrator or designee shall avoid such conduct which could result in allegations of intimidation or the like, however, the questioning should be such as to ascertain the event which occurred.

    (2)  The student’s parents or guardian shall be contacted to remove the student from school for the remainder of the school day. No student shall be released until a parent or guardian is present. At that time, the parent or guardian shall be informed of the alleged violations, the possible consequences of the student’s actions and a recommendation concerning counseling for that student. In the event the parents or guardian do not or cannot appear to remove the student from the school, the administrator of the building or his/her designee may dismiss the student at the conclusion of the school day. The student shall not be allowed to return to school unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.

    (3)  All offenses shall be reported in writing and telephones immediately to the Superintendent of Schools.

  c.  Notification of Parents/Guardian - Required. As stated above.

  d.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know in accordance with CGS Section 10-154a.

  e.  Disposition of Substance - If a substance is discovered, it will be provided to the appropriate medical personnel to assist in determining appropriate treatment. It will then be documented and submitted to police in accordance with CGS Section 10-154a(c). The school administrator or his/her designee will obtain a signed, dated receipt from the police.

  f.  Follow-Up Action - If no drug use is confirmed, follow standard school health procedure. If drug use is confirmed, a referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  The assigned school employee who makes the assessment shall refer the student and his/her family to a community based agency which provides appropriate services for drug and alcohol education, prevention and treatment.

  g.  Disciplinary Procedure - Consequences of violation of this section if drug use is confirmed.

    (1)  First Offense - Automatic five (5) days Out-of-school suspension. Upon return, will receive three (3) days in house suspension.

    (2)  Second Offense - Automatic ten days (10) out-of-school suspension.

    (3)  Third Offense and Subsequent Offenses: Habitual Offender - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension. The student shall be referred to the Superintendent of Schools for possible expulsion or other appropriate action.

  h.  Notification of Police - Required if drugs are involved.

4. Situation III

  A student is caught in possession of drugs.

  a.  Immediate Action - The staff member will escort the student to the school administrator or his/her designee who will then confiscate the drug. The student will not be left alone.

  b.  Investigation - The school administrator or his/her designee will request that the student empty his/her pockets and/or purse and volunteer all drug-like substances. The student’s person, locker, and all personal property will be searched. The student shall not be left alone. Investigation shall include the following procedures:

    (1)  On all alleged violations of this, regulation, the student involved shall be brought as soon as is possible under the circumstances to the school administrator or designee shall attempt to have an advocate of the student present while questioning the student. The administrator or designee shall avoid such conduct which could result in allegations of intimidation or the like, however, the questioning should be such as to ascertain the event which occurred.

    (2)  The student’s parents or guardian shall be contacted to remove the student from school for the remainder of the school day. No student shall be released until a parent or guardian is present. At that time, the parent or guardian shall be informed of the alleged violations, the possible consequences of the student’s actions and a recommendation concerning counseling for the student. In the event the parents or guardian do not or cannot appear to remove the student from the school, the school administrator or his/her designee may dismiss the student at the conclusion of the school day. The student shall not be allowed to return to school unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.

    (3)  All offenses shall be reported in writing and telephones as soon as is possible to the Superintendent of Schools.

  c.  Notification of Parent/Guardian - Required. As stated above.

  d.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with CGS Section 10-154a.

  e.  Disposition of Substance - Any drug-like substance will be packaged, documented and submitted to police in accordance with CGS Section 10-154a(c). The school administrator or his/her designee will obtain a signed, dated receipt from the police.

  f.  Follow-up Action - A referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  The assigned school employee who makes the assessment shall refer the student and his/her family to a community based agency which provides appropriate services for drug and alcohol education, prevention and treatment.

  g.  Disciplinary Procedure - Consequences of violation of this section.

    (1)  First Offense - Automatic five (5) days out-of-school suspension. Upon return, student will receive three (3) days in-house suspension.

    (2)  Second Offense - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension.

    (3)  Third Offense and Subsequent Offenses: Habitual Offender - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension. The student shall be referred to the Superintendent of Schools for possible expulsion or other appropriate action.

  h.  Notification of Police - Required.

5. Situation IV

  A student is found using, in possession of, or suspected to be under the influence of a drug or is caught in possession of any type of drug paraphernalia when attending any officially sanctioned school activity on or off school property.

  a.  Immediate Action - A school staff member or accompanying school administrator or his/her designee shall be notified immediately. If deemed necessary, police will be summoned for assistance.

  b.  Investigation - The school staff member or school administrator or his/her designee shall request that the student empty his/her pockets and/or purse and/or other personal property and volunteer all drug-like substances. The student shall not be left alone. Investigation shall include the following procedures:

    (1)  On all alleged violations of this regulation, the student involved shall be brought, as soon as is possible under the circumstances, to the school administrator or his/her designee. Such administrator or designee shall attempt to have an advocate of the student present while questioning the student. The administrator or designee shall avoid such conduct which could result in allegations of intimidation or the like, however, the questioning should be such as to ascertain the event which occurred.

    (2)  The student’s parents or guardian shall be contacted to remove the student from the school function for the remainder of the activity. No student shall be released until the parent or guardian is present. At that time, the parent or guardian shall be informed of the alleged violations, the possible consequences of the student’s action and a recommendation concerning counseling for the student. In the event the parents or guardian do not or cannot appear to remove the student from the activity, the police will be requested to transport the student home. If the school related function is off Killingly Public Schools’ property, the school staff member or school administrator or his/her designee may arrange other appropriate transportation. The student shall not be allowed to return to school unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.

    (3)  All offenses shall be reported in writing and telephoned as soon as is possible to the Superintendent of Schools.

  c.  Notification of Parent/Guardian - Required. As stated above.

  d.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154a.

  e.  Disposition of Substance - Any drug-like substance discovered will be packaged, documented and submitted to police in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154 (c). The school administrator or his/her designee will obtain a signed, dated receipt from the police.

  f.  Follow-up Action - A referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  The assigned school employee who makes the assessment shall refer the student and his/her family to a community based agency which provides appropriate services for drug and alcohol education, prevention and treatment.

  g.  Disciplinary Procedure - Consequences of violation of this section.

    (1)  First Offense - Automatic five (5) days out-of-school suspension. Upon return, student will receive three (3) days in-house suspension.

    (2)  Second Offense - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension.

    (3)  Third Offense and Subsequent Offenses: Habitual Offender - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension. The student shall be referred to the Superintendent of Schools for possible expulsion or other appropriate action.

6.  Situation V

  A student is caught with any type of paraphernalia normally associated with the use of drugs (i.e. tobacco rolling papers, bongs, clips, pipes, needles, etc.).

  a.  Immediate Action - The staff member will escort the student to the school administrator or his/her designee who will then confiscate the paraphernalia. The student will not be left alone.

  b.  Investigation - The school administrator or his/her designee shall request that the student empty his/her pockets and/or purse and volunteer all paraphernalia and drug-like substances. The student's person, locker and all other personal property will be searched. The student shall not be left alone. Investigation shall include the following procedures:

    (1)  On all alleged violations of this regulation, the student involved shall be brought as soon as is possible under the circumstances, to the school administrator or his/her designee. Such administrator or designee shall attempt to have an advocate of the student present while questioning the student. The administrator or designee shall avoid such conduct which could result in allegations of intimidation or the like, however, the questioning should be such as to ascertain the event which occurred.

    (2)  The student’s parents or guardian shall be contacted to remove the student from school for the remainder of the school day. No student shall be released until a parent or guardian is present. At that time, the parent or guardian shall be informed of the alleged violations, the possible consequences of the student’s actions, and a recommendation concerning counseling for the student. In the event the parents or guardian do not or cannot appear to remove the student from the school, the school administrator or his/her designee may dismiss the student at the conclusion of the school day. The student shall not be allowed to return to school unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.

    (3)  All offenses shall be reported in writing and telephoned immediately to the Superintendent of Schools.

  c.  Notification of Parents/Guardian - Required. As stated above.

  d.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154a.

  e.  Disposition of Substance - Any paraphernalia or drug-like substance discovered will be packaged, documented and submitted to police in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154 (c). The school administrator or his/her designee will obtain a signed, dated receipt from the police.

  f.  Follow-up Action - A referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  The assigned school employee who makes the assessment shall refer the student and his/her family to a community based agency which provides appropriate services for drug and alcohol education, prevention and treatment.

  g.  Disciplinary Procedure - Consequences of violation of this section.

    (1)  First Offense - Automatic five (5) days out-of-school suspension. Upon return, student will receive three (3) days in-house suspension.

    (2)  Second Offense - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension.

    (3)  Third Offense and Subsequent Offenses: Habitual Offender - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension. The student shall be referred to the Superintendent of Schools for possible expulsion or other appropriate action.

  h.  Notification of Police - Required.

7.  Situation VI

  A student is caught distributing drugs.

  a.  Immediate Action - The staff member will escort the student to the school administrator or his/her designee who will then confiscate the drug. The student/students will not be left alone.

  b.  Investigation - The school administrator or his/her designee will request that the student/students empty his/her pockets and/or purse and volunteer all drug-like substances. The student’s person, locker, and all personal property will be searched. The student/students will not be left alone. Investigation shall include the following procedures:

    (1)  On all alleged violations of this regulation, the student involved shall be brought as soon as possible under the circumstances to the school administrator or his/her designee. Such administrator or designee shall attempt to have an advocate of the student present while questioning the student. The administrator or designee shall avoid such conduct which could result in allegations of intimidation or the like, however, the questioning should be such as to ascertain the event which occurred.

    (2)  The student’s parents or guardian shall be contacted to remove the student from school for the remainder of the school day. No student shall be released until a parent or guardian is present. At that time, the parent or guardian shall be informed of the alleged violations, the possible consequences of the student’s actions and a recommendation concerning counseling for the student. In the event the parents or guardian do not or cannot appear to remove the student from the school, the school administrator or his/her designee may dismiss the student at the conclusion of the school day. The student shall not be allowed to return to school unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.

    (3)  All offenses shall be reported in writing and telephones immediately to the Superintendent of Schools.

  c.  Notification of Parents/Guardian - Required. As stated above.

  d.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154a.

  e.  Disposition of Substance - Any drug-like substance discovered will be packaged, documented and submitted to police in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154a (c). The school administrator or his/her designee will obtain a signed, dated receipt from the police.

  f.  Follow-up Action - A referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  g.  Disciplinary Procedure - Consequences of violation of this section.

    (1)  First Offense - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension.

    (2)  Second Offense and Subsequent Offenses: Habitual Offender - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension. The student shall be referred to the Superintendent of Schools for possible expulsion or other appropriate action.

8.  Situation VII

  A student, while off school grounds, offered for sale or distribution a controlled substance, (defined C.G.S. Section 21a-240 (9), whose manufacture, distribution, sale, prescription dispensing, transporting or possessing with intent to sell or dispense, offering, or administering is subject to criminal penalties under C.G.S. Sections 21a-277 and 2la-278.

  a.  Immediate Action - The staff member will escort the student to the school administrator or his/her designee who will then confiscate the drug. The student/students will not be left alone.

  b.  Investigation - The school administrator or his/her designee will request that the student/students empty his/her pockets and/or purse and volunteer all drug-like substances. The student’s person, locker, and all personal property will be searched. The student/students will not be left alone. Investigation shall include the following procedures:

    (1)  On all alleged violations of this regulation, the student involved shall be brought as soon as possible under the circumstances to the school administrator or his/her designee. Such administrator or designee shall attempt to have an advocate of the student present while questioning the student. The administrator or designee shall avoid such conduct which could result in allegations of intimidation or the like, however, the questioning should be such as to ascertain the event which occurred.

    (2)  The student’s parents or guardian shall be contacted to remove the student from school for the remainder of the school day. No student shall be released until a parent or guardian is present. At that time, the parent or guardian shall be informed of the alleged violations, the possible consequences of the student’s actions and a recommendation concerning counseling for the student. In the event the parents or guardian do not or cannot appear to remove the student from the school, the school administrator or his/her designee may dismiss the student at the conclusion of the school day. The student shall not be allowed to return to school unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.

    (3)  All offenses shall be reported in writing and, telephoned immediately to the Superintendent of Schools.

  c.  Notification of Parents/Guardian - Required. As stated above.

  d.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154a.

  e.  Disposition of Substance - Any drug-like substance discovered will be packaged, documented and submitted to police in accordance with C.G.S. Section 10-154a (c). The school administrator or his/her designee will obtain a signed, dated receipt from the police.

  f.  Follow-up Action - A referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  g.  Disciplinary Procedure - Consequences of violation of this section.

    (1)  First Offense and Subsequent Offenses - Automatic ten (10) days out-of-school suspension. If not previously involved, mandatory referral to law enforcement agency. Mandatory referral to expulsion proceedings.

  > Note: If the Board of Education or hearing board finds that the student did so offer for sale or distribution a controlled substance such student shall be expelled for one (1) calendar year provided that the Board of Education or hearing board may modify the period of expulsion on a case by case basis.

  h.  Notification of Police - Required if not previously involved.

9.  Appeal Process

  Charges and consequences, as a result of this application, may be appealed in accordance with the Board policy, Section 5114.1 (a) through 5114.1 (f) inclusive.

### Use of Tobacco Prohibited

1.  Definition of Terms

  a.  Distribution and/or Sale - Includes any form of selling, giving or delivering, for remuneration or for free or for any other consideration or gain.

  b.  Possession - Articles in the custody or control of the student, on the person or within the personal effects of the student including but not limited to school lockers, motor vehicles on school property, clothing, purses, book bags, books and other personal property.

  c.  Smoking - Means the lighting of, or carrying of a lighted, or the burning of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other matter or substance which contains tobacco.

  d.  Student - Any person enrolled in the Killingly Public Schools, grades pre-kindergarten through 12 inclusive, whether or not that person physically attends a Killingly Public School. This section shall include those students of Killingly Public Schools attending out-of district placements.

  e.  Tobacco - Any and all matter or substance which contains any quantity of tobacco, tobacco by products, or other forms of tobacco.

  f.  Use of Tobacco - Includes the ingesting, sniffing, chewing, smoking, inhaling, applying or otherwise introducing into the human body any and all matter or substance which contains any quantity of tobacco, tobacco by products, or other forms of tobacco.

2.  Killingly High School (Grades 9-12) Situation I

  A student is caught possessing, using distributing or selling tobacco within any school buildings owned or used by the Board of Education, within any school grounds owned or used by the Board of Education, within any vehicle owned or used by the Board of Education, or during all officially sanctioned school activity on or off school property. Consequences for violations of this section shall be cumulative through the student's high school career (violations cumulative school year to school year).

  a.  Immediate Action - The staff member will escort the student/students involved to the school administrator or his/her designee who will attempt to confiscate the tobacco product. The student/students will not be left alone.

  b.  Investigation - The student shall be informed of the consequences of his/her actions.

  c.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with Board policy.

  d.  Disciplinary Procedure - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with Board policy.

    (1)   First Offense

      (a)  Confiscation of tobacco product(s)

      (b)  Written warning issued to the student.

      (c)  Written notice to parents indicating consequences for repeated offenses along with information concerning community based agencies which provide appropriate services for tobacco education, prevention and treatment.

    (2)  Second Offense

      (a)  Confiscation of tobacco products(s).

      (b)  Three (3) days out-of-school suspension.

      (c)  Parent must accompany student back to school.

      (d)  No smoking policy issued to parent along with information concerning community based agencies which provide appropriate services for tobacco education, prevention and treatment.

    (3)  Third Offense

      (a)  Confiscation of tobacco product(s).

      (b)  Five (5) days out-of-school suspension.

      (c)  Parent must accompany student back to school.

      (d)  No smoking policy issued to parent along with information concerning community based agencies which provide appropriate services for tobacco education, prevention and treatment.

    (4)  Fourth Offense

      (a)  Confiscation of tobacco product(s).

      (b)  Ten (10) days out-of-school suspension.

      (c)  Parent must accompany student back to school.

      (d)  No smoking policy issued to parent.

      (e)  A referral through the school administrator to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral to a community based agency which provides appropriate services for tobacco education, prevention and treatment.

    (5)  Fifth Offense: Habitual Offender

      (a)  Confiscation of tobacco product(s).

      (b)  Student placed on out-of-school suspension.

      (c)  Parent and student must meet with subcommittee of the Board of Education and/or the Superintendent of Schools.

      (d)  Consideration of expulsion hearing.

3.  Killingly Intermediate School (Grades 5-8) Killingly Memorial School & Killingly Central School (Grades K-4) Situation I

  A student is caught possessing, using, distributing or selling tobacco within any school buildings owned or used by the Board of Education within any school grounds owned or used by the Board of Education, within any vehicle owned or used by the Board of Education, or during all officially sanctioned school activity on or off school property.

  a.  Immediate Action - The staff member will escort the student/students involved to the school administrator or his/her designee who will attempt to confiscate the tobacco product. The student/students will not be left alone.

  b.  Investigation - The student shall be informed of the consequences of his/her actions. On all violations, the parent or guardian shall be notified, followed by a written notice of the consequences of the student's actions.

  c.  Notification of Parents Guardian - Required.

  d.  Confidentiality - Confined to those with a need to know and in accordance with Board policy.

  e.  Follow-up Action - A referral through the school administrator or his/her designee to a school counselor, school nurse, school psychologist, or school social worker for an assessment and/or referral.

  f.  Disciplinary Procedure - Consequences of violations of this section.

  Grades 5-8

    (1)  First Offense - One (1) day of either in school or out-of-school suspension.

    (2)  Second Offense - Two (2) days of either in-school or out-of-school suspension.

    (3)  Third Offense - Three (3) days of either in-school or out-of-school suspension and a parent conference to discuss a possible remedy.

    (4)   Fourth Offense and Subsequent Offenses: Habitual Offender - Five (5) days of either in-school or out-of-school suspension and referral to the Superintendent of Schools for appropriate intervention and disposition.

  Grades K-4

    (1)  First Offense - Two (2) days of after-school detention.

    (2)  Second Offense - Two (2) days of either in-school or out-of-school suspension, parent conference prior to student returning to class and a counseling component.

    (3)  Third and Subsequent Offenses: Habitual Offender - Two (2) days of either in-school or out-of-school suspension and referral to the Superintendent of Schools for appropriate intervention and disposition.

4.  Appeal Process

  Charges and consequences, as a result of this regulation, may be appealed in accordance with the Board policy, sections 5 144.1 (a) through 5 144.1 (f) inclusive.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 1-21b Smoking prohibited in certain places. Signs Required. Penalties. (as amended by P.A. 87-201)

* 10-154a Professional communication between, teacher, or nurse and student. Surrender of physical evidence obtained from students.

* 10-221 (d) Board of Education to prescribe rules…(as amended by P.A. 87-499, Sec. 14)

* 21a-240 (8) Definition - Controlled Drugs

* 21a-240 (9) Definition - Controlled Substances

* 21a-240 (20) (a) Definition - Drug Paraphernalia

* 21a-240 (30) Definition - Narcotic Substances

* 21a-240 (49) Definition - Restricted Drugs

* 30-10 Definition - Alcoholic Liquor

* 53-344 Sale of tobacco to minors under eighteen. (as amended by P.A. 87-374)

* 53-344a Sale of tobacco. Proof of age.

* P.A. 96-244 An Act Concerning Revisions To The Education Statutes

**Regulation approved:   August 11, 2004**

