## 5131.5 - Vandalism

### Vandalism by Minors

The parent or guardian of any minor/unemancipated child who willfully cuts, defaces or otherwise injures in any way any property real or personal, belonging to the school district shall be held liable for all such damages up to the maximum amount allowed under state law.  Injury shall include intentional unauthorized modifications made to computer hardware and/or software and theft of school property.

The liability provided under Connecticut General Statutes 52-572 does not relieve the minor(s) of personal liability for such damage or injury. This liability of the parent for damages done by a minor child is in addition to any other liability which exists in law.  Liability shall include all costs incurred to remedy the situation.

The parent or guardian of a minor child shall also be held liable for all property belonging to the school system lent to the student and not returned upon demand of the school system. The student may also be subject to disciplinary action.

### Vandalism by an Adult Student

An adult student shall be held personally liable for any damage or injury done to any property, real or personal, belonging to the school district. The student may also be subject to disciplinary action.

### Theft

Any and all thefts are to be reported to the administration immediately.  Employees or students should not leave money or other valuables in a desk or room or any other unsupervised location.

(cf. 6161.2 - Guidelines for Care of Instructional Materials)

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-221(c) Boards of education to prescribe rules. (re sanctions that may be imposed by a board against students who damage or fail to return textbooks, library materials or educational materials)

* 52-572 Parental liability for torts of minors. Damage defined.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

