## 5131.81 - Electronic Devices

### Use of Beepers - Paging Devices/Cellular Telephones

1.  Students shall not possess or use a laser pointer unless under teacher supervision for instructional purposes, a remotely activated paging device while on school property, on school transportation or while attending a school sponsored activity on or off school property. 

2.  The School Principal may grant written permission for possession and use of a paging device by a student if the student or his/her parent or guardian establishes to the satisfaction of the Principal that a reasonable basis exists for the possession and use of the device.

3.  The prohibition of paging devices does not apply in the following cases, providing that the Building Principal approves in advance of the presence of a telephone pager: a disabled student using portable pagers for medical reasons, visitors on school property for an authorized program, meeting or function, a student who is a member of a volunteer fire company, ambulance or rescue squad, or a student who has the need due to the medical condition of an immediate family member.

4.  Students may be in possession of a cellular telephone. Use of the device shall be limited to the period before classes begin in the morning, and after the student’s last class in the afternoon.  Such devices shall not be used during instructional time or in the passing between classes unless there is a bona fide health or safety emergency.

5.  Students shall not possess or use a cellular telephone or paging device that is capable of taking photographs or videos of any kind. In no case will any personal communication device be allowed to access a connection to the Internet. Students violating this section shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including suspension and/or expulsion.

6.  Devices shall not be used in a manner that disrupts the educational process, including, but not limited to, posing a threat to academic integrity or violating confidentiality or privacy rights of another individual.

7.  Disciplinary action may be taken against any student for using a cellular telephone, or other electronic device that is otherwise not banned by this policy, in any manner that disrupts the educational environment, including using the device to cheat, signal others, or otherwise violate student conduct rules.  Unless otherwise banned under this policy, all electronic devices must be kept off and out of sight during the regular school day unless: (a) the supervising teacher grants permission, (b) use of the device is provided in a student’s IEP, or (c) it is needed in an emergency that threatens the safety of students, staff or other individuals.

8.  A staff member who discovers a student in possession of a paging device, without written permission of the Principal, or using a cellular mobile telephone during the regular school day, without approval shall report the violation to a school administrator who may temporarily confiscate the device and contact the parent/guardian.  Repeated violation of this policy may result in confiscation of the device and its forfeiture to the District.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-233j Student possession and use of telecommunications devices

* PA 95-304 An Act Concerning School Safety

* PA 96-108 An Act Concerning Student Use of Telecommunication Devices and the Establishment of Graduation Dates

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

