## 5131.1 - Student Driving and Parking

### Automobile Use

At the discretion of the senior high school administration, students may be provided parking lot space for private vehicles during the times when school is in session.

The student use of automobiles on school grounds, whether to drive or to park, is a privilege and is governed by Board of Education policy and by motor vehicle laws.

This privilege may be revoked for improper use of a motor vehicle, disregard for safety or for any other reason.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

### Student Driving and Parking

Students are allowed to drive cars to school.

The high school has three parking lots. Students may park in parking spaces designated by yellow lines.

No student can park in a handicap parking area without a state issued handicap permit or written permission of the school principal.

No parking is allowed in roadways, including the main entrance and roads passing athletic fields. These are designated fire lanes where parking is NOT allowed at any time.

During the school day, parking lots are restricted areas for students and students are prohibited from entering the parking lots without a pass from the main office or from an administrator. 

Parking lots are school property. All school regulations are in force and vehicles are subject to search if administration has reason to believe contraband may be present.

The school provides no full-time parking lot supervision and can assume no responsibility for theft or damage. Valuables should not be left in cars.

All traffic laws are enforced on school property. Students that violate the parking policy or violate traffic laws may be subject to discipline, including suspension and/or revocation of driving privileges. Vehicles left unattended or parked in restricted areas are subject to towing at the owner's expense.

Parents and students should evaluate poor weather driving conditions and make appropriate decisions based on weather conditions and student driving experience.

Legal Reference: 

* Connecticut General Statutes

  * 10-221 Boards of Education to prescribe rules.

**Regulation approved:  April 8, 2015**

