## 5132 - Dress and Grooming

The Board of Education encourages students to dress in clothing appropriate to the school situation. Restrictions on freedom of student dress may be applied whenever the mode of dress in question:

1.  is unsafe either for the student or those around the student,

2.  is disruptive to school operations and the education process in general,

3.  is contrary to law.

No restrictions on freedom of dress as adornment will be imposed which:

1.  reflect discrimination as to civil rights,

2.  enforce particular code of morality or religious tenets,

3.  attempt to dictate or adjudicate style or taste,

4.  do not fall within the direct or implied powers of the Board of Education.

The administration is encouraged to establish any needed regulations consistent with this policy through cooperative planning with staff, students and parents.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

It has been a matter of pride and satisfaction that students have been well and suitably dressed. It should remain a matter of personal pride to maintain high standards of neatness and appropriateness of dress and appearance.

Good grooming denotes our way of life. It becomes difficult to maintain high ideals within if one is slovenly without. All experiences during school years should be a part of a student’s preparation to take his place in society as a mature and responsible individual.

The Board and school officials are interested in the students and their education. The Board feels it right and proper to set certain standards of attire and appearance in the interest of maintaining a proper and healthful educational atmosphere.

Cleanliness of body and dress is vital to the individual and to those with whom the student shares a classroom or locker. Students’ clothing or hair should not be such that it will be hazardous to them in the various school activities, such as shop, laboratories, athletics, physical education and art. Grooming and dress that prevent the student from doing his/her best work because of blocked vision or restricted movement or that expose the student to accidents, must be avoided.

The wearing of clothing, hair arrangements, or other personal adornments or embellishments clearly intended to be disruptive or to interfere with the regular operations of school expressly are prohibited.

To promote a positive, safe and non-disruptive learning environment, proper attire should be worn. Therefore, the following attire is prohibited from wear in the Killingly Public Schools during the academic school day:

A.  Coats, jackets or other attire normally worn as outerwear.

B.  Head coverings of any kind, including but not limited to, scarves, bandannas, masks, kerchiefs, athletic headbands, hats, caps, or hoods.

C.  Footwear which marks/damages floors or is a safety hazard.

D.  Sunglasses (unless required by a doctor's order).

E.  “Name” or other oversized metal belt buckles.

F.  Spiked or studded bracelets, oversized or multi-finger rings, belts, or any other article of attire with spikes or studs attached.

G.  Attire or accessories which portray disruptive writing or pictures.

H.  Attire or accessories which depict logo or emblems that encourage the use of drugs, tobacco products, or alcoholic beverages.

I.  Shirts, and/or blouses which reveal the abdomen, chest, or undergarments.

J.  See-through or other inappropriate clothing including spandex.

K.  Shorts, miniskirts, or pants which reveal the mid thigh or undergarments. For the purpose of defining mid thigh, the garment length shall be worn no shorter than the length of the student’s arm, hand and fingers fully extended to his/her side.

Students whose dress and grooming does not conform to these standards will be referred to the Principal. The student will be warned by the Principal and advised as to what adjustments must be made. If the student fails to remedy the problem, the parents will be contacted. If the problem remains uncorrected, the student will be subject to punishment up to and including expulsion as determined by due process procedures.

Nothing in this regulation is intended to intrude the constitutional or statutory rights of any student, as long as, in the exercise of these rights, students do not create a threat to the good order of the school or cause the disruption of any recognized school function.

The exercise of such rights by students must be consistent with the public purpose for which the public schools have been established.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

