## 5134 - Married/Pregnant Students

Married students shall have the same educational opportunities as unmarried students, and the Board of Education's responsibility for the education of all school-age children includes pregnant students whether married or unmarried who shall be allowed to remain in school and be provided appropriate support services as a part of the school program.

A pregnant student may remain in her regular school program as long as her physical and emotional condition permits.  Any variation from a pregnant student's continuance in regular classes shall be based upon her specific needs.  Homebound and hospitalized instruction shall be provided only when the Planning and Placement Team finds that it is in the best interest of the student.

A student who is under age 16 and a mother may request permission from the Board to attend adult education class in lieu or the regular school program.

\(cf. [6200](/policies/6000/6200.md) - Adult Continuing Education\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-184 Duties of parents.
>   * 10-186 Duties of local and regional boards of education re school attendance.
> 
> * State Board of Education Regulations
>   * 10-76a-35 Educationally exceptional children.
>   * 10-76d-15 Homebound and hospitalized instruction \(subsection b4\).
>   * 10-76d\(e\)\(2\) Duties and powers of boards of education to provide special education programs and services.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

There are occasions when students either become pregnant or suspect they are pregnant.  Depending upon the situation, knowledge of either may or may not be shared with a student's parent or guardian.

In case of pregnancy or suspected pregnancy, the school's attitude must always be one of concern for:

A.  Continuation of an appropriate educational program.

B.  Appropriate counseling to the student and maintenance of confidence with the student.

C.  Appropriate medical advice to the student.

In all instances of pregnancy or suspected pregnancy, the above four concerns reflect the extent of the schools responsibility in such matters.  Within the constraints of these responsibilities various situations are possible which can create difficult decisions for school personnel.  These situations will be guided by the procedures outlined in the following scenarios.

### Suspected Pregnancy

Situation:  The student indicates to a staff member that she suspects she is pregnant and is desirous of obtaining advice on a course of action.

School Actions:

1. The staff member must immediately refer this to the school social worker for counseling.

2. Counseling should be provided and the student encouraged to convey this information to her parent or guardian and to consult the family physician.  If this route is successfully followed, the school's next action is one of follow-up; i.e., concern for the appropriate educational program in the event the student is pregnant and appropriate follow-up counseling whether or not the student was pregnant.

3. If, after counseling, the student refuses to share her suspected condition with her parents or guardians, she should be advised that appropriate medical facilities are available for performing tests to establish the fact of pregnancy.  Information as to medical facilities available for performing such tests will be provided the student.  At this point, the school's responsibility is one of follow-up.

  A.  If the student has appropriate tests conducted and is determined not to be pregnant, the school should provide appropriate follow-up counseling.

  B.  If the student has appropriate tests conducted and is determined to be pregnant, the school should continue to encourage involvement of parents or guardian and the handling of the matter through the parents or guardian and the family physician.  If the student refuses, she should be advised of appropriate medical facilities and counseling facilities which are available, and she should be encouraged to make contact with any one of these sources.  Furthermore, the student must be advised that the school will be compelled to inform her parents or guardians of her condition, when after consultation with the School Medical Advisor, it is deemed necessary to change the educational program because of the student's pregnancy.


If a pregnant student does go to a professional source for advice and/or medical care, the professional source will be notified by the school, after consultation with the School Medical Advisor, that the parents or guardian will be informed of the student's condition when in the opinion of the school a change in educational program is necessary because of the student's pregnancy.

### Confirmed Pregnancy

Situation:  The student indicates to a staff member that she is pregnant and is desirous of obtaining advice on a course of action.

School Action:

1. The same procedure should be followed as mentioned under 2.B., "Suspected Pregnancy".

2. If, after counseling, the student refuses to share knowledge of her parents or her guardian, she should be advised of appropriate medical facilities and counseling facilities that are available and she should be encouraged to make contact with any one of these sources.  At this point the school's responsibility is one of follow-up.

  A.  Student contacts a professional source for assistance.

  \(1\)  School should continue to encourage involvement of parents or guardian and the handling of the matter through the parents or guardian.  If the student refuses this advice she must be advised that the school will be compelled to inform her parents or guardian of her condition, when after consultation with the School Medical Advisor, it is deemed necessary to change the educational program because of the student's pregnancy.

  B.  Student does not contact a professional source for assistance.

  \(1\)  Same action as in the case where the student does contact a professional source for assistance.


Staff members are reminded of the "first line" of medical advice available through the school nurse.  Whenever possible, and as early as possible, it is wise to help the student develop confidence in the nurse.  If this confidence cannot be established, the staff member should seek assistance from the nurse as deemed most appropriate.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

