## 5141.7 - Student Sports - Concussions

The Board of Education recognizes that concussions are commonly reported injuries in children and adolescents who participate in sports and other recreational activities. The Board acknowledges the risk of catastrophic injuries or deaths are significant when a concussion or head injury is not properly evaluated and managed.

Commencing July 1, 2010, and each school year thereafter, any coach of intramural or interscholastic athletics employed by the District shall complete an initial training course, approved by the State Board of Education, regarding concussions which are a type of brain injury prior to commencing the coaching assignment for the season. Such training course shall include, but not be limited to (1) the recognition of the sign and symptoms of a concussion; (2) the means of obtaining proper medical treatment for a person suspected of having a concussion; (3) the nature and risk of concussions, including he danger of continuing to engage in athletic activity after sustaining a concussion; and (4) the proper method of allowing a student athlete who has sustained a concussion to return to athletic activity.

Each school year any coach who has completed the initial training course regarding concussions and shall annually review current and relevant information developed or approved by the Staate Board of Education, regarding concussions prior to the start of the coaching assignment.  This annual review is not required in any year the coach is required to complete a refresher course. Beginning July 1, 2015, and each school year thereafter, a coach must complete an approved refresher course not later than five years after the initial training course in order to maintain his/her coaching permit and to coach in the District.

Annually the District will distribute a head injury and concussion information sheet to all parent/guardians of student participants in competitive sport activities. The parent/guardian and student must return a signed acknowledgement indicating that they have reviewed and understand the information provided before the student participates in any covered activity. This acknowledgment form must be returned and be on file with the District in order for the student to be allowed to practice or compete in the sports activity.

All coaches will complete training pertaining to the District's procedures.

The required refresher course regarding concussions shall include, but not be limited to, an overview of key recognition and safety practices, an update of medical developments, current best practices in the field of concussion research, prevention and treatment. Said refresher course shall also contain an update on new relevant federal, state and local laws and regulations, and for football coaches, current best practices regarding coaching the sport of football, including, but not limited to, frequency of games and full contact practices and scrimmages as identified by the governing authority for intramural and interscholastic athletics (CIAC).

The District after January 1, 2015 shall implement the "Concussion Education Plan and Guidelines or Connecticut Schools," developed by the State Board of Education per the stipulations of P.A. 14-66. Written materials, online training or videos, or in person training shall address, at a minimum, the recognition of signs or symptoms of concussion, means of obtaining proper medical treatment for a person suspected of sustaining a concussion, the nature and risks of concussions, including the danger of continuing to engage in athletic activity after sustaining a concussion, proper procedures for return to athletic activity and current best practices in the prevention and treatment of a concussion.

The Board recognizes that commencing July 1, 2015, the CIAC prohibits student athletes from participation in any intramural or interscholastic activity unless the student athlete and his/her parent/guardian completes the concussion education plan of the State Board of Education and its contributing organizations to such plan. Prior to participating in any intramural or interscholastic athletic activity students must (1) read written materials, (2) view online training video, or (3) attend in-person training regarding the District's concussion education plan provided by the Board of Education

Prior to participating in any intramural or interscholastic athletic activity for the school year beginning July 1, 2015 and thereafter, a parent or guardian must  (1) read written materials, (2) view online training video, or (3) attend in-person training regarding the District's concussion education plan provided by the Board of Education

> Note: CIAC recommends that, whenever possible, in-person training is utilized at the required pre-season meeting for parents/guardians and athletes. Schools may use any or al of the delivery methods mentioned above to develop a plan that best fits the district's demographics.

The District, commencing July 1, 2015, will utilize the consent form developed or approved by the State Board of Education, with parent/guardians of student athletes in intramural or interscholastic activities regarding concussions. This form shall provide a summary of the concussion education plan developed or approved by the State Board of Education and a summary of the Board's policy regarding concussions.  The consent form shall be returned to the appropriate school authorities, signed by the parent/guardian, attesting to the receipt of such form and authorizing the student athlete to participate in the athletic activity.

Further, in compliance with applicable state statutes, the coach of any intramural or interscholastic athletics shall immediately remove any student athlete participating in intramural or interscholastic athletics who (1) is observed to exhibit signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion following an observed or suspected blow to the head or body during a practice, game or competition, (2) is diagnosed with a concussion, or (3) is otherwise suspected of having sustained a concussion because such student athlete is observed to exhibit signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion regardless of when such concussion or head injury may have occurred. Upon such removal, the coach or other qualified school employee defined in Connecticut General Statutes 10-212a, shall notify the student athlete's parent/guardian that the student athlete has exhibited such signs, symptoms, or behaviors consistent with a concussion or has been diagnosed with a concussion. Such notification shall be provided not later than twenty-four hours after such removal. However, a reasonable effort shall be made to provide such notification immediately after such removal.

The coach shall not permit such student athlete to participate in any supervised athletic activities involving physical exertion, including, but not limited to, practices, games or competitions, until such student athlete receives written clearance to participate in such supervised athletic activities involving physical exertion from a licensed health care professional\* trained in the evaluation and management of concussions.

Following medical clearance, the coach shall not permit such student athlete to participate in any full, unrestricted supervised athletic activities without limitations on contact or physical exertion, including, but not limited to, practices, games or competitions and such student athlete (1) no longer exhibits signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion at rest or with exertion, and (2) receives written clearance to participate in such full, unrestricted supervised athletic activities from a licensed health care professional trained in the evaluation and management of concussions.

> \* "licensed health care professional" means a physician licensed pursuant to Chapter 370 of the General Statutes, a physician assistant licensed pursuant to Chapter 370 of the General Statutes, an advanced practice registered nurse licensed pursuant to Chapter 378 of the General Statutes or an athletic trainer licensed pursuant to Chapter 375a of the General Statutes.

The Board, as required, for the school year beginning July 1, 2014 and annually thereafter, will collect and report to the State Board of Education all occurrences of concussion. The report shall contain, if known, the nature and extent of the concussion and the circumstances in which it was sustained.

Optional language:

The Board believes that at the forefront of concussion management is the implementation of baseline testing, through the implementation of the ImPACT (Immediate Post-concussion Assessment and Cognitive Testing) Program.\* Subject to the availability of financial resources, District athletes will receive "baseline" testing prior to the start of the sports season and should be done for individual athletes at least every other year.

> \* ImPACT is a 20 minute computerized concussion evaluation system that has been scientifically validated and has become a standard tool used in comprehensive clinical management of concussions for athletes of all ages.  Information is available at http://www.impacttest.com/. This computerized neurocognitive testing program is available online.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* P.A. 10-62 An Act Concerning Student Athletes and Concussions

* P.A. 14-66 An Act Concerning Youth Athletics and Concussions

* Concussion Education Plan and Guidelines for Connecticut Schools" adopted by the State Board of Education, January 7, 2015.

**Policy adopted:  October 8, 2014**

**Policy revised:  June 10, 2015**

---

### Concussion Management in Student Sports

A.  Duties of the Athletic Director or Administrator in Charge of Athletics:

  1.  Annually, each spring, the Athletic Director or the administrator in charge of athletics, if there is no Athletic Director, shall review, with the District's Medical Advisor and athletic trainer, any changes that have been made regarding the management of concussion.

  2.  By the conclusion of the school year, the Athletic Director or administrator in charge of athletics will identify the competitive sport activities in the District for which compliance with the concussion policy is required.  A list of competitive sports activities and the District's policy and procedures will be distributed to all members of the coaching staff.

  3.  The Athletic Director or the administrator in charge of athletics, if there is no Athletic Director, shall be responsible for determining that all coaches of intramurals or interscholastic sports have fulfilled the required initial training and subsequent follow-up regarding concussions prior to the coach's commencement of his/her assignment.

B.  Training of Coaches

  All coaches shall undergo training in head injuries and concussion management as required by state statute, in a program approved by the State Board of Education. The Connecticut State Board of Education's 'Concussion Education Plan and Guidelines for Connecticut Schools" In addition, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has made available a tool kit, "Heads Up: Concussion in High School Sports," which can provide additional information for coaches, athletes, and parents.

C.  Parent/Student Information Sheet

  On a yearly basis, a concussion consent and information sheet shall be signed and returned by the student athlete and the athlete's parent/guardian prior to the student athlete's initiating practice or competition. This information sheet may be incorporated into the parent permission sheet, which permits students to participate in extracurricular athletics.  Beginning with the school year commencing July 1, 2015, the District will utilize the informed consent form developed or approved and made available by the State Board of Education.

D.  Coaches Responsibility

  1.  Based on mechanism of injury, observation, history and unusual behavior and reactions of the athlete, even without loss of consciousness, assume a concussion has occurred if the head was hit and even the mildest of symptoms occur.  The student athlete who is suspected of sustaining a concussion in a practice or game shall be immediately removed from play. (Refer to Appendix D: Concussion Symptoms)

  2.  If confusion, unusual behavior or responsiveness, deteriorating condition, loss of consciousness, or concern about neck and spine injury exists, the athlete should be referred at once for emergency care.

  3.  If no emergency is apparent, the athlete should be monitored every 5 to 10 minutes regarding mental status, attention, balance, behavior, speech and memory until stable over a few hours.  If appropriate medical care is not available, an athlete even with mild symptoms should be sent for medical evaluation.

  4.  Upon removal from the athletic activity, the coach or other qualified school employee shall notify the athlete's parent/guardian that the student athlete has exhibited the signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion or has been diagnosed with a concussion. Every reasonable effort shall be made to immediately provide such notification, but not later than twenty-four hours after such removal.

  5.  No athlete suspected of having a concussion should return to the same practice or contest, even if symptoms clear in 15 minutes, no sooner than twenty-four hours after removal and only after the athlete and his/her parent/guardian completes the State Board of Education concussion education plan and the athlete receives written clearance from a licensed health care professional trained in the evaluation and management of concussions.

E.  Return to Play After Concussions

  1. A student athlete who has been removed from play may not participate in any supervised team activities involving physical exertion, including, but not limited to practices, games, or competitions, sooner than twenty-four hours\* after such athlete was removed from play until the athlete is evaluated by a licensed health care provider trained in the evaluation and management of concussions and receives a written clearance to return to play from that health care provider [or: Any athlete removed from play because of a concussion must have written medical clearance from an appropriate health care professional before he/she can resume practice or competition] and not until the student athlete and his/her parent/guardian completes the State Board of Education concussion education plan. Refer to Appendix E: "The Proper Procedures for Allowing a Student Athlete Who Has Sustained a Concussion to Return to Athletic Activity.")

  > Note:  CIAC requirements indicate that no athlete shall return to participation on the same day of concussion.

  \* P.A. 10-62 does not require a 24-hour waiting period before an athlete may return to participate in team activities. However, the law does require written clearance from a licensed health care professional.

  2.  After medical clearance, the return to play by the athlete should follow a step-wise protocol with provisions for delayed return to play based on return of any signs or symptoms.

  3.  The medical clearance return to play protocol is as follows:

    a.  No exertional activity until asymptomatic.

    b.  When the athlete appears clear, begin low-impact activity such as walking, stationary bike, etc.

    c.  Initiate aerobic activity fundamental to the specific sport such as skating, or running and may also begin progressive strength training activities.

    d.  Begin non-contact skill drills specific to sport such as dribbling, fielding, batting, etc.

    e.  Full contact in practice setting.

    f.  If athlete remains asymptomatic, he/she may return to game/play.

F.  School Concussion Management Team (optional)

  A school concussion management team may/shall be formed to create and implement the concussion management plan with sound procedures that support a concussed student.

  Refer to Appendix F, "School Concussion Management Team" for the suggested members of said team and the reasons for involvement.

  Refer to Appendix G, " Suggested Roles and Responsibilities of the School Concussion Management Team and Personnel" for specific responsibilities of each of the members of th School Concussion Management Team.

G.  Best Practices

  Refer to Appendix H, :"Current Best Practices in the Prevention and Treatment of a Concussion" for information pertaining to current best practices to consider and utilize.

**Regulation approved:   October 8, 2014**

**Regulation revised:  June 10, 2015**

