## 5141.5 - Suicide Prevention and Intervention

The Killingly Board of Education recognizes that suicide is among the three leading causes of death among young people and, consequently, is a concern to this school system and the community it serves.  It is the policy of the Board of Education to actively respond in any situation where a student verbally or behaviorally indicates an intent to attempt suicide or to do physical harm to himself/herself.

The Board of Education recognizes the need for youth suicide prevention procedures and will establish program(s) to identify risk factors for youth suicide, procedures to intervene with such youth, referral services and training for teachers, other school professionals and students to provide assistance in these programs.

It is also recognized by the Board that suicide is a complex issue, and that, while school staff members may recognize potentially suicidal youth, they cannot make clinical assessment of risk and provide in depth counseling, but must refer the youth to an appropriate agency for such assessment and counseling.

Therefore, any school employee who may have knowledge of a suicide threat or intent will report this information to the school principal or his/her designee, who will, in turn, mobilize the crisis intervention team as described in the district's Guide to Crisis Intervention Procedures.  The student's family will be notified, and an appropriate referral will be made.  At no time during this process is the student to be left alone.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-221(e) Boards of education to prescribe rules.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

### Suicide Prevention

When a staff member in the Killingly Public School System has a suspicion, is confronted with a situation in which a student makes a statement of suicidal thinking, or it appears an attempt at suicide is possible, the following actions will take place:

1.  The staff member immediately will refer the student to the appropriate designated counselor and inform the Principal who will assemble the crisis team consisting of nurse, counselor, psychologist, social worker, Principal or designee. (A MEMBER OF THE CRISIS TEAM WILL BE ASSIGNED TO STAY WITH THE STUDENT AT ALL TIMES) The Principal is responsible for keeping the superintendent informed.

  a.  In the event the staff member perceives a student has taken action which creates a medical emergency, the school nurse will be notified immediately and emergency medical procedures will be followed.

  b.  The counselor and/or Department of Pupil Services worker will meet to assess the student’s status with the student immediately.

  c.  The counselor will notify the Principal as to the outcome of the status assessment. According to these results, one of the following will occur:

    (1)  If the student is not found to be suicidal but may be at risk, the parents will be notified of the referral and of all conclusions reached.

    Follow-up contacts with the student and the parents or guardian will be maintained until such time as it is determined all threat of suicide has passed. A written report of all contact with the student and the parent or guardian will be kept in the Principal’s crisis file.

    (2)  If the student is found to be at risk of suicide, immediate contact will be made with a parent or guardian and a conference will be held the same day. During the conference, the parent or guardian will be advised that an immediate psychiatric assessment is needed. Pupil Services will help with this referral.

    Under no circumstances is a student allowed to go home alone. The student must be released only to a parent, guardian, or responsible adult. In cases of confirmed suicide attempt or ideation, parents and student will be connected with appropriate mental health agencies. If reasonable attempts to reach the parent, guardian or other responsible adult in whose custody the student may be released are not successful, the case will be treated as a medical emergency and arrangements will be made to transport the student to an area hospital emergency room or mental health facility by the counselor and a school social worker or other designated staff.

    (3)  If the student requires medical attention, he/she will be transported immediately to an area hospital (ambulance, nurse, counselor, social worker, as appropriate).

    (4)  A detailed report will be written within twenty-four (24) hours by the department worker who assumes responsibility for the case. The report shall include:

    * name of the student

    * name of the staff member(s) involved

    * time and date of all conferences

    * summary of all conferences

    * recommendations made to parents, student, and building staff

    This report will be kept by the building Principal in the crisis team file. Follow-up contact will be in accordance with the recommendations.

2.  Follow-up strategies will occur dependent upon the nature of the crisis.

  a.  If as a result of suicidal activity a need exists for changes in the student’s program, the school’s Child Study Team will convene and consult with the student’s mental health professional, the parent(s) or guardian, appropriate outside facility staff members and, if feasible, the student to plan the student's educational program.

  b.  The school social worker or department of pupil services worker who assumes responsibility for the case will maintain contact with the student’s mental health professionals to support programming needs and follow-up procedures.

  c.  Failure on the part of the family to take seriously and provide for the safety of the student in-case of potential suicide will be considered emotional neglect and may be reported to the Department of Children and Youth Services (cf. 5141.4 - Child Abuse/Neglect).

  d.  A report will be written indicating those activities performed to follow through and ensure the safety and well-being of the student.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

