## 5141.27 - Use of Automatic External Defibrillators (AEDs)

In order to assist individuals who may experience cardiac arrest on school property, the Killingly Board of Education has acquired external defibrillators for use in school buildings. It is the policy of the Board of Education to support the use of these automatic external defibrillators by trained personnel on school property.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall be responsible for developing administrative regulations in furtherance of the Automatic External Defibrillator (AED) policy, in conformity with the provisions of applicable statutes and regulations.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules.

* 52-557b “Good Samaritan law.” Immunity from liability for emergency medical assistance, first aid or medication by injection.  School personnel not required to administer or render.

* Public Law 106-505 Cardiac Arrest Survival Act

* Public Law 105-170 Aviator Medical Assistance Act

* Public Law 107-188 The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Response Act

**Policy adopted:   March 12, 2008**

---

### Definitions

An Automatic External Defibrillator (AED) is a device that: (1) is used to administer an electric shock through the chest wall to the heart; (2) contains internal decision-making electronics, microcomputers or special software that allows it to interpret physiologic signals, make medical diagnosis and, if necessary, apply therapy; (3) guides the user through the process of using the device by audible or visual prompts; and (4) does not require the user to employ any discretion or judgment in its use.

A Predetermined AED Provider is a person who is CPR and AED certified and has a copy of his/her certification on record with Killingly Public Schools.

AED Equipment and Location:

1.    Any AED device purchased or received as a gift for placement in District facilities must meet the definition outlined above.

2.  During school hours, the AED will be at designated locations. These locations shall be specific to each school but should allow the device to be easily seen or accessed by staff. The locations should allow staff members to retrieve the device outside of normal school hours.

3.  Consideration should be given to placing the devices in a wall mount cabinet with alarm and wired Emergency Medical Services (EMS) alarm.

4.  All District AEDs must be registered with the local EMS provider and with the    Connecticut Office of Emergency Medical Services.

5.  The Killingly Public Schools will have defibrillators in school buildings designated by the Killingly Board of Education. The AEDs will be strategically placed and readily accessible to pre-determined AED Providers to maximize rapid utilization.

  * KHS, outside the gymnasium and auditorium

  * KIS, outside the gymnasium

  * KCS, outside the gymnasium

  * KMS, outside the gymnasium

### Requirements for Predetermined AED Providers

1.  Predetermined AED Providers shall be held accountable for the retrieval, use, and return of the AED when it is used.

2.  On an annual basis, a Predetermined AED Provider shall certify in writing that he/she has read the Killingly Public Schools AED administrative regulations, and provide such certification and a copy of AED training completion documentation to the Supervisor of Nurses.

### Required Training

1.  The District will provide training to two or more persons in each building that houses an AED, including the school nurse, gym teachers and coaches. Certified American Red Cross or American Heart Association certified CPR/First Aid/AED instructors will do the training.

2.  Initial and annual refresher training is required by the Connecticut Department of Public Health requirements for all AED providers.

3.  Documentation of completion of training shall be provided annually to the Superintendent of Schools.

### I.  Responsibility for Operation, Maintenance and Record-Keeping

1.  A designee at each building in which an AED is installed will check the defibrillator in the building on a monthly basis.  It will be that person’s responsibility to verify that the unit is in the proper location, that it has all the following equipment, that it is ready for use, and that it has performed its self-diagnostic evaluation.

  a.    One set of defibrillation electrodes connected to the device

  b.    One spare set of electrodes with the AED

  c.    One set of pediatric pads

  d.    One resuscitation kit connected to the handle of the AED.

    This kit contains:

    * Two pair latex-free gloves

    * One razor

    * One set of trauma shears

    * One facemask barrier device

  If the designee notes any problems, or the AED’s self-diagnostic test has identified any problems. The designee must contact the full-time nurse in their building who will contact the nurse supervisor for repair and supplies. 

2.  After performing a monthly AED check, the designee shall make note on an AED service log (Appendix VII) indicating that the unit has been inspected and that it was found to be “In-Service” or “Out-of-Service.”

3.  The Nursing Supervisor shall be responsible for the following:

  a.    AED service checks by designee during the school contracted school year.

  b.    The replacement of equipment and supplies for the AED.

  c.    The repair and service of the AED.

  d.    All recordkeeping for the equipment during the contracted school year.

  e.    Training Records of Predetermined AED Providers which include:

    * CPR certification

    * AED certification

  f.    Maintaining a list of predetermined and properly certified AED providers approved by the Superintendent of Schools and/or the AED school Medical Advisor.

  g.    Incident record keeping.

  h.    Copies of the certifications signed by Predetermined AED Providers regarding understanding of and agreement to comply with Killingly Board of Education AED policies and procedures (Appendix III).

  i.    Providing/scheduling opportunities for CPR and AED training recertification for all KPS Board of Education school nurses.

  j.    Reporting the need for revising the policy and administrative regulations to the Director of Pupil Services and/or Superintendent of Schools.

  k.    Assisting Predetermined AED Providers in other appropriate ways as determined by the administration.

  l.    Registering the AEDs in accordance with state law.

Medical Control:

The District’s School Medical Advisor is the medical advisor of the AED program. He/She has ongoing responsibility for:

*  Providing medical direction for use of the AEDs.

*  Writing a prescription for AEDs.

*  Reviewing and approving guidelines for emergency procedures related to use of AEDs and CPR.

*  Evaluation of post-event review forms and digital files downloaded from the AED.

*  A report must be completed and forwarded to the local EMS provider each time an AED is activated.

AED Trained Staff Member Responsibilities:

*  Activating internal emergency response system and providing prompt basic life support including AED and first aid according to training and experience.

*  Understanding and complying with requirements of this policy and regulation.

*  Following the more detailed procedures and guidelines of the AED program.

### School Nurse Responsibilities:

The school nurse is responsible for:

*  Receiving emergency medical calls from internal locations.

*  Using an established 911 checklist to assess emergency and determine appropriate level of response.

*  Contacting the external community 911 response team (EMS) if required (The state’s 911 system must be activated each time an AED is used.)

*  Assigning someone to meet responding EMS aid vehicle and direct EMS personnel to site of medical emergency.

*  Apply protocol for use of AED as deemed necessary.

*  Download and complete accident report.

### AUTOMATIC EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR INCIDENT REPORT

```
Name of person completing report: _____________________________________________

Date report is being completed:  _____________________      Date of Incident: _______________________

Name of patient on which AED was applied: _____________________________________ Age __________

Known status of patient

Student

Parent of Student

Other, explain ___________________________________________________________________

Name of AED Rescuer: _______________________________________________________

Bystanders:  ______________________________________________________________________________

Describe incident: ____________________________________________________________________________

List series of events from the start of the emergency until its conclusion: ________________________________________

Time patient transported: __________       Number of shocks delivered: _____________

Transporting Ambulance Service:_____________________________________________

Your Signature: __________________________   Date:________________

Signature of Program Physician:_______________________________________


Please forward to the Superintendent of Schools no later than 48 hours after the incident.
```

