## 5141.3 - Health Assessments and Immunizations

The Board of Education recognizes the importance of periodic health assessments according to state health regulations.

To determine health status of students, facilitate the removal of disabilities to learning and find whether some special adaptation of the school program may be necessary, the Board of Education requires that students have health assessments.

The Board of Education adheres to those state laws and regulations that pertain to school immunizations and health assessments.  It is the policy of the Board of Education to insure that all enrolled students are adequately immunized against communicable diseases.  The Board may deny continued attendance in school to any student who fails to obtain the health assessments required under C.G.S. 10-206, as may be periodically amended.

Parents wishing their children exempted or excused from health assessments must request such exemption to the Superintendent of Schools in writing. This request must be signed by the parent/guardian.

It is the responsibility of the Principal to insure that each student enrolled has been adequately immunized and has fulfilled the required health assessments.  The school nurse shall check and document immunizations and health assessments on all students enrolling in school and to report the status to the school principal.  The school nurse shall also contact parents or guardians to make them aware if immunizations and/or health assessments are insufficient or not up-to-date.  The school nurse will maintain in good order the immunization and health assessment records of each student enrolled.

No record of any student's medical assessment may be open to the public.

As required, beginning February 2004, the district will annually report to the Department of Public Health and to the local health director the asthma data obtained through the required asthma assessments, including student demographics.  The district, as required, will also participate in annual school surveys conducted by the Department of Public Health pertaining to asthma.

\(cf. [5111](/policies/5000/5111.md) - Admission\)

\(cf. 5141.31 - Physical Examinations for School Programs\)

\(cf. [5125](/policies/5000/5125.md) - Student Records\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-204  Vaccination
>   * 10-204a  Required immunizations as amended by PA 96-244.
>   * 10-204c  Immunity from liability
>   * 10-205  Appointment of school medical adviser
>   * 10-206  Health assessments \(as amended by June Special Session PA 01-1\)
>   * 10-207  Duties of medical advisors
>   * 10-206a Free health assessments
>   * 10-208 Exemption from examination or treatment
>   * 10-208a Physical activity of student restricted; board to honor notice
>   * 10-209 School nurses
>   * 10-212 School nurses
>   * 10-214 Vision, audiometric and postural screenings.  When required. Notification of parents re defects; record of results, as amended by PA 96-229, An Act Concerning Scoliosis Screening

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

Before being permitted to attend a school district school, being 12 \(twelve\) years of age or entering 7th  grade, each student shall show written proof of age appropriate immunization as required by the State of CT Dept. of Public Health, as attached to these regulations.

If, in accordance with State Law, a student presents a certificate from his/her physician certifying that in his/her opinion such vaccination or immunization would not be prudent on account of the student's physical condition, or a statement from his/her parent or guardian indicating that such vaccination or immunization would be contrary to his/her religious beliefs, or, in the case of immunization against mumps, measles, rubella and varicella, a statement from a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered nurse or Director of Health that the student has already had the disease, the student shall be excused from this requirement. If such exemption is not permanent, written proof of continued must be submitted annually. The school nurse or, in her/his absence, the building Principal, shall be responsible for securing and verifying proof of compliance with the immunization requirement.

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-204 Vaccination
>   * 10-204a Required immunizations
>   * 10-204c Immunity from liability
>   * 10-205 Appointment of school medical adviser
>   * 10-206 Health assessments
>   * 10-207 Duties of medical advisers
>   * 10-206a Free health assessments
>   * 10-208 Exemption from examination or treatment
>   * 10-208a Physical activity of student restricted; board to honor notice
>   * 10-209 School nurses
>   * 10-212 School nurses
>   * 10-214 Vision, audiometric and postural screenings. When required.
> 
> * Notification of parents re defects; record of results, as amended by PA 96 229, An Act Concerning Scoliosis Screening.

**Regulation approved: August 11, 2004**

**Revised and Approved: November 2, 2011**

