## 5141.25 - Accommodating Students with Special Dietary Needs

The Board of Education believes all students, through necessary accommodations where required, shall have the opportunity to participate fully in all school programs and activities.

In some cases, a student’s disability may prevent him/her from eating meals prepared for the general school population.

Substitutions to the regular meal will be made for students who are unable to eat school meals because of their disabilities, when that need is certified in writing by a physician. Meal service shall be provided in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of the disabled student.

The nature of the student’s disability, the reason the disability prevents the student from eating the regular school meals, including foods to be omitted from the student’s diet, indication of the major life activity affected by the disability, the specific diet prescription along with the substitution\(s\) needed will be specifically described in a statement signed by a licensed physician. The district, in compliance with USDA Child Nutrition Division guidelines, will provide substitute meals to food-allergic students based upon the physician’s signed statement.

The Board recognizes that students with documented life-threatening food allergies are considered disabled and are covered by The Disabilities Act  and Public Law 93-112 and Section 504 of The Rehabilitation Act of 1973. A clearly-defined “504 Accommodation Plan” shall be developed and implemented for all such identified students in which necessary accommodations are made to ensure full participation of identified students in student activities. Such plan shall be signed by the appropriate staff, the parent/guardian of the student and the student’s physician.

All schools are also responsible for developing and implementing guidelines for the care of food-allergic students. Such guidelines shall include, but not be limited to, staff development, strategies for identifying students at risk for life-threatening allergic reactions, means to manage the student’s allergy including avoidance measures, designation of typical symptoms and dosing instructions for medications.

\(cf. 5141 - Student Health Services\)

\(cf. [5141.21](/policies/5000/5141-21.md) - Administering Medication\)

\(cf. [5141.23](/policies/5000/5141-23.md) - Students with Special Health Care Needs\)

\(cf. [5141.3](/policies/5000/5141-3.md) - Health Assessments\)

\(cf. [5145.4](/policies/5000/5145-4.md) - Nondiscrimination\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-15b Access of parent or guardian to student’s records.
>   * 10-154a Professional communications between teacher or nurse and student.
>   * 10-207 Duties of medical advisors.
> 
> * Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
> * Americans With Disabilities Act
> * FCS Instruction 783-2, Revision 2, Meal substitution for medical or other special dietary reasons.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

In order to properly implement the Board policy pertaining to the management of food allergies, the following administrative regulations are hereby established:

1. Each school shall establish a method of ensuring that relevant information is transmitted to all supervising persons of an identified student. It is incumbent upon the school to notify any person who may be supervising an identified student with food allergies, especially those which may be life-threatening, such as peanut allergies.

2. The primary concern of the school is the prevention and appropriate treatment of potentially severe allergic reaction, anaphylaxis.

3. Parents with allergic children must provide the school with an individualized action plan prepared by the student’s physician. \(See form; EMERGENCY HEALTH CARE FORM\)

4. At risk students should have some means of identification, such as a medical alert bracelet.

5. Most food-allergic children bring their lunch from home. However, guidelines established by the USDA Child Nutrition Division in charge of school lunches requires school food service staff to provide substitute meals to allergic students if the physician of the student sends in written instructions certifying the child’s allergy, what foods are to be avoided and safe substitutions.

6. Consider establishing a no-food trading policy within the school.

7. Permit parents to review/preview menus in order to select safe foods their child may eat.

8. Consider the following avoidance strategies due to the fact that risk can never be fully eliminated tin the school environment:

  a\)  Parents should be encouraged to instruct their children in how to avoid contact with substances to which they are allergic.

  b\)  Carefully monitor identified children, especially in the younger grades.

  c\)  Allergic children should consider eating foods that are only prepared at home.

  d\)  Students should be encouraged not to exchange foods or utensils with other students.

  e\)  Surfaces, toys and equipment should be washed clean of allergic containing foods.

  f\)  Food personnel should be instructed about necessary measures required to prevent cross contamination during food handling, preparation and serving of food.

  g\)  Check hand soap ingredients to be sure it does not contain peanut oils.

  h\)  Establish a buddy system for identified students.

  i\)  Provide staff updates at monthly faculty meetings.

  j\)  Consider a peanut-free table in the cafeteria.

9. Provide training for staff in basic first aid, resuscitative techniques and in the use of epinephrine auto injections.

10. Epinephrine should be kept in close proximity to students at risk of anaphylaxis and in all cases where it is administered, the student must be sent to the hospital immediately.


**Regulation approved:   August 11, 2004**

