## 5141.24 - Students/Staff with HIV, ARC (AIDS Related Complex) or AIDS

Scientific studies show that the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), the virus which causes the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or ARC (AIDS Related Complex), is transmitted through sexual intercourse with an infected individual or through exposure to contaminated blood or needles. There is no evidence to support the notion that the HIV virus can be transmitted through ordinary school or household activities, e.g. coughing, sneezing, hugging, sharing of utensils or food, or shaking hands.

The anonymity of individuals with HIV infection or AIDS is protected by law. Moreover, individuals with HIV infection or AIDS are protected from discrimination by both federal and state laws. Neither attendance at school nor employment may be denied to an individual with HIV infection or AIDS. It is the policy of the District that no student or staff member with HIV infection or AIDS may be prohibited from attending school/employment unless there is an immediate risk of injury or harm to the individual or to others.

Because the diagnosis of HIV infection or AIDS is a confidential matter between the individual student or staff member and his or her physician, the District may be unaware of the diagnosis. Consequently, the Board of Education has adopted a policy of "universal precautions" which protects all students and staff from contact with blood and body fluids of others. These precautions are enumerated in the Blood Borne Pathogen policy.

(cf. 4147.1/4247.1 - Bloodborne Pathogens)

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-76(d)(15) Duties and powers of boards of education to provide special education programs and services
>   * 10-154a Professional communications between teacher or nurse and student
>   * 10-207 Duties of medical advisors
>   * 10-209 Records not to be public
>   * 10-210 Notice of disease to be given parent or guardian
>   * 19a-221 Quarantine of certain persons
>   * 19a-581-585 AIDS testing and medical information

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

### Students with HIV, ARC or AIDS

1.  Staff members with a direct need to know that a child has AIDS/HIV infection shall be provided with appropriate information concerning such precautions as may be necessary.

2.  Based upon individual circumstances, including those discussed below, special programming may be warranted. Special education should be provided if determined to be necessary by the Planning and Placement Team.

3.  Under the following circumstances a child with AIDS/HIV infection night: pose a risk of transmission to others: if the child lacks toilet training, has open sores that cannot be covered, or demonstrates behavior (e.g. biting) which could result in direct inoculation of potentially infected body fluids into the bloodstream. If any of these circumstances exist, the School Medical Advisor, in consultation with the school nurse and the child’s physician, must determine whether a risk of transmission exists. If it is determined that a risk exists, the student shall be removed from the classroom.

4.  A child with AIDS/HIV infection may be temporarily removed from the classroom for the reasons stated in #3 until either an appropriate school program adjustment can be made, an appropriate alternative education program can be established, or the medical advisor determines that the risk has abated and the child can return to the classroom.

  a.  A child removed from the classroom for biting or lack of toilet training should be immediately referred to the Planning and Placement Team for assessment and, thereafter, for the development of an appropriate program if warranted.

  b.  A child temporarily removed from the classroom for open sores or skin eruptions which cannot be covered should be placed on homebound instruction and readmitted only with medical documentation that the risk no longer exists.

  c.  Removal from the classroom under sections a) and b) above should not be construed as the only responses to reduce risk of transmission. The school district should be flexible in its response and attempt to use the lease restrictive means to accommodate the child’s need.

  d.  In any case of temporary removal of the student from the school setting, state regulations and school policy regarding homebound instruction must apply.

5.  Each removal of a child with AIDS/HIV infection from normal school attendance should be reviewed by the school medical advisor in consultation with the student’s physician at least once every month to determine whether the condition precipitating the removal has changed.

6.  A child with AIDS/HIV infection, as with any other immunodeficient child, may need to be removed from the classroom for his/her own protection when cases of measles or chicken pox are occurring in the school population. This decision should be made by the child’s physician and parent/guardian in consultation with the School Nurse and/or the School Medical Advisor.

7.  The School Nurse should function as (a) the liaison with the child’s physician, (b) the AIDS/HIV infected child’s advocate in the school (i.e. assist in problem resolution, answer questions) and (c) the coordinator of services provided by other staff.

8.  Routine and standard procedures should be used to clean up after a child has an accident or injury at school. Blood or other body fluids emanating from any child, including ones known to have AIDS/HIV infection, should be treated cautiously. Gloves should be worn when cleaning up blood spills. These spills should be disinfected with either bleach or another disinfectant, and persons coming in contact with them should wash their hands afterwards. Blood soaked items should be placed in leakproof bags for washing or further disposition. Similar procedures are recommended for dealing with vomitus and fecal or urinary incontinence in any child. Handwashing after contact with a school child is routinely recommended only if physical contact has been made with the child’s blood or body fluids, including saliva.

This regulation may be altered only by action of the Board of Education.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

