## 5141 - Health

### School Medical Advisor - Duties

The school medical advisor shall have the following duties and responsibilities:

1.  Make a prompt examination of all students referred to him/her by the school nurse, teachers, Principal or Superintendent of Schools.

2.  Interpret to such nurse, teacher, Principal or Superintendent and to the parents/guardian of the student his/her findings, together with recommendations on how  the student should be cared for and what provisions, if any, should be made at school for the care and welfare of such student.

3.  Make examination of teachers, custodians and others in the employment of the Board of Education when requested to do so by the Board or when he/she considers such examinations to be necessary.

4.  Make such sanitary inspection of school buildings, as is necessary for the protection of the health of students.

5.  Take steps to preserve and improve the health of students in accordance with the requirements of the Public Health Code of the State of Connecticut.

6.  Interpret to teachers and nurses factors dealing with communicable disease control.

### School Health Records

1.  A cumulative health record on the form recommended by the state shall be maintained on each student so that the Principal, the parent/guardian, the medical advisor, the teacher and the nurse may participate in promoting optimum health for each student. These records shall be kept by grade in the school health office in a locked file.

2.  When a student transfers to another school district in the state, the original health record is to be sent to the new district and a copy is to be maintained. When a student is transferring to another school district out of state, a copy of the health record is sent to the new school district and the original record is kept.

### Emergency Procedure Card

The Principal in each building retains routine information on procedures to be followed in the event of a serious illness or injury, including names of contact persons to assume care. The information shall be made readily available to the school nurse.

### Minimum Requirements Prior to School Entry into Kindergarten

_KINDERGARTEN_

* DTaP:  At least 4 doses. The last dose must be given on or after 4th birthday.

* Polio:  At least 3 doses. The last dose must be given on or after 4th birthday.

* MMR:  2 doses separated by at least 28 days, 1st dose on or after the 1st birthday.

* Hep B:  3 doses, last dose on or after 24 weeks of age.

* Varicella:  2 doses separated by at least 3 months-1st dose on or after the 1st birthday; or verification of disease.

* Hib:  1 dose on or after the 1st birthday for children less than 5 yrs. old.

* Pneumococcal:  1 dose on or after the 1st birthday for children less than 5 yrs. old

* Hepatitis A:  2 doses given six calendar months apart, 1st dose on or after 1st birthday.

### Physical Examination

Students entering Kindergarten will present proof of having had a physical examination prior to the first day of school. This physical examination will include either a hematocrit blood test or a hemoglobin blood test. Students will not be allowed to enter school until these requirements are met.

### Health Appraisal Activities

1.  A physical examination is required in the 7th. grade, at the start of 2013-14 school year and in the 10th grade. This physical should include:

  | | | |
  | -- | -- | -- |
  | Height    | i | HCT/HGB      |
  | Weight    | i | Urinalysis   |
  | B/P       | i | Gross Dental |
  | Pulse     | i | Vision       |
  | Scoliosis | i | Auditory     |

  Students transferring into the Killingly School System from out of state must have a current physical examination report in their medical file before they are allowed to start school.

2.  Vision Screening and Observations - State statute requires the vision of all students in grades kindergarten through 6 inclusive plus grade 9 be examined annually. The procedure shall be carried out by the school nurse. All failures and questionable results shall be re-tested and referred on the recommended form to the parents/guardians for professional attention and follow-up. All such referrals must be returned to the school nurse with evidence of professional intervention.

  Standard:  A student who fails to read with either eye one more than half of the 20/30 line in kindergarten through grade 3 or fails to read one more than half of the 20/20 line in grade 4 and above, or in any grade is found to have a one line discrepancy between the two eyes shall be found to have a defect in vision or disease of the eyes.

3.  Hearing Screening - All students in grades kindergarten through 3 plus grades 5 and 8 shall have a hearing screening. Additional screenings will be conducted on any student suspected of having a hearing difficulty. Subsequent failures following re-testing will be referred to the student's parents/guardians for professional attention. All new enrollees not having been tested shall be examined on entry by the school nurse.

  Standard: A student who fails to respond to one or more of the three required screening frequencies in either ear shall be found to have an impairment or defect of hearing.

  Screening:

  | Frequencies (Hz) | Hearing Level (dB) |
  | -- | -- |
  | 1000 | 20 |
  | 2000 | 20 |
  | 4000 | 25 |

4.  Weight and Measuring - All students shall be weighed and measured annually. This information shall be recorded on the student's permanent health record. The school nurse will discuss deviations and recommend corrective measures to the family.

5.  Dental. Implementation will be dependent upon the availability of a dental hygienist. Gross dental screening should occur at the time of the physical examination (kindergarten, 7th, 10th grade). This is a contracted service with the Northeast District Department of Health.

6.  Postural Screening - Postural screening will be conducted for students in grades 5 to 9 inclusive.

  a.  The parent or guardian and student shall receive information prior to the screening to acquaint them with said screening.

  b.  Clothing or a gown shall be arranged so the entire back including the waist line and the hip line shall be observed without covering.

  c.  Observation for scoliosis and kyphosis shall consist of five key signs:

    1)  rib or flank fullness upon forward bend

    2)  shoulder height difference

    3)  shoulder blade prominence

    4)  waist line or hip asymmetry

    5)  obvious curve or crease in back

  Standard: A student observed to have rib or flank fullness upon the forward bend or any three of the other key signs shall be found to have a postural problem.

7.  Annual Written Notification - to parents/guardians and student of all screenings to be conducted within the school system will occur.

### Nurse-Teacher Conferences

1.  The nurse shall make known to involve teachers in the fall of each year the health problems of students in their classes. Additional conferences will be held as the need arises. Any health information given by the school nurse is considered confidential.

2.  This planned nurse-teacher information exchange is an effective means of providing for continuing health supervision and exchange of information on the total health status of all students. The teacher is encouraged to keep a continuing record of his/her observations and to bring these to the attention of the nurse.

  The nurse aids the teacher by his/her knowledge of health and disease and by interpreting deviations from the norm.

### Parents/Guardians Permission

The permission of parents/guardians is assumed for routine screening tests of vision, hearing, weight, height and posture. Written permission from parents/guardians is obtained for student participation in the Smile's Dental Program, physical examinations, hematocrit blood tests and immunizations.

### Immunization Clinic

Immunization clinics deemed proper and necessary by the school physician may be planned by the school nurse under the direction of the school physician. All such clinics shall be made known to the Principal of the school.

### First Aid

1.  Those students needing first aid treatment are to be referred to the nurse, the health aide, the Principal or another designated staff member.

2.  The nurse and the Principal shall advise each other of reportable accidents.

### Illness

1.  A student taken ill during the nurse's absence remains the responsibility of the Principal until the Principal is relieved by the nurse, parent/guardian or their designated person.

2.  Students are to be, excluded from school for symptoms of acute illness or any conditions that appear communicable. The decision to exclude a student from school shall be made by the nurse and/or Principal, each reporting to the other on all such exclusions.

### Notification of Parent/Guardian in Cases of Severe illness or Accident

1.  If the student's condition requires immediate medical attention, the family shall be notified and asked to call the family physician or to accept the services of the school physician.

2.  If delay is judged to be detrimental to the student's welfare or the parent/guardian cannot be reached, the emergency procedure card is to be used.

3.  In the event the student's condition warrants immediate hospitalization, the Principal or, in his/her absence, a delegated staff member may assume responsibility for calling 911.

### Medications in School

1.  Medication will be given by the school nurse or Principal. Medication to be administered in school shall not be sent to and from school with students. These medications will be brought to school by parents/guardians in a properly labeled bottle. When this is not possible, parents/guardians shall make arrangements with the school nurse for delivery of medications to the school. All medications must be kept in a double locked box or cabinet. (cf. 5141.21 - Administering Medication)

2.  Students shall not medicate themselves in school. The Board of Education and school personnel will not be responsible for self-administration of medication by students. All students found taking medication will be referred to the nurse or the Principal with one exception - that exception is the use of inhalers for asthma attacks. Asthmatic children may carry their inhalers if directed, in writing, to do so by their physician. This doctor's order must be on file in the nurse's office.

### Transportation

1.  Parents/guardians must assume the responsibility for transporting their children home or to a physician in all emergencies of accident or illness.

2.  If parents/guardians cannot be reached or do not have means of transporting their child, the emergency care procedure will be followed. If transportation is unavailable, the Principal shall have the responsibility for determining the mode of transportation for the student.

### Reporting Accidents

1.  In order to discharge its responsibility and meet the requirements of the insurance company coverage, the administration shall report all major accidents promptly. Accident forms must be completed, describing in detail where the accident occurred, the type of injury, necessary first aid administered, and witnesses to the accident. (cf. 5141.1/5141.2 - Accidents/Illness)

2.  Major accidents include all injuries to head, eyes, ears and mouth. Injuries to back, chest or abdomen are considered major accidents if redness, swelling or difficulty in breathing is observed and the patient complaints of pain. Fractures or suspected fractures are major accidents.

3.  All accidents, regardless of their degree of severity, must be promptly reported to the nurse and the Principal by the person supervising the activity in which the accident occurred. These reports shall be made on the required form.

### Communicable Diseases

1.  Communicable disease control is based on local and state regulations. The nurse shall be responsible for interpreting to the school staff any regulations or information on communicable disease applicable to the school situation.

2.  Prompt isolation procedures should be carried out while completing arrangements to send the student home with suspicious symptoms.

3.  Re-admission to school after absence for communicable disease or for illness of 3 days or longer requires the student be seen by the school nurse. The Principal or his/her designated staff member will act in this capacity when the nurse or aide is not available.

### Absence from School

1.  A copy of the daily absence record shall be available for the nurse.

2.  The nurse has the responsibility for nursing follow-up of children who are absent from school for more than 3 days because of illness or injury.

### Health Counseling

In carrying out health counseling, the nurse will give students information about their health status and assist them in improving and maintaining their health. The nurse will interpret to parents/guardians the significance of health needs and problems and will encourage them to obtain needed care for their children. Students in need of treatment shall be referred to the family physician or dentist when this is possible for, when necessary, to the community resources.

### Health Education

1.  The nurse will work with advisory groups such as parent-teacher organizations, student placement teams, student and staff groups on school health problems.

2.  The health education program is to be based on the needs and interests of the students and aimed toward providing them with the knowledge, habit and attitudes essential to their health and safety for the present and future. School personnel are encouraged to use the services of the school nurse as a resource in planning the health instructional program.

### Nurse's Responsibilities

1.  The nurse shall interpret the findings of all physical effects to the parents /guardians, counseling them as indicated, and recommending further medical check-up if needed.

2.  The nurse shall administer first aid and take care of sudden illness when he/she is in school or is called by the Principal, as governed by the medical standing orders and regulations.

3.  The nurse shall work with the faculty in cooperation with the Principal and plan yearly health appraisal activities.

4.  The nurse shall interpret student physical defects relevant to school activities to the teacher, making recommendations as indicated.

5.  The nurse shall counsel individual students relative to their health.

6.  The nurse shall review with teachers the symptoms of communicable disease as they occur and provide information on each disease to children to take home.

7.  The nurse shall assist in maintaining a healthful school environment by observing individual and group health hazards and making recommendations to the teacher and Principal.

8.  The nurse may attend P.P.T. and staff meetings and other meetings of educational value to him/her.

9.  The nurse shall keep an inventory of supplies in the health room and will requisition supplies as needed for health services to comply with medical standing orders and policies.

10.  The nurse shall meet when requested and when necessary with individual teachers to discuss and identify emotional and physical problems relating to the health of a student. The nurse shall be a member of the student planning and placement team whenever necessary for the appraisal of problems of specific students.

#### Revision of Standing Orders

These health rules and standing orders shall be reviewed annually by the school physician, nurse, Principal and the nursing supervisor to consider any needed changes and to make sure such revisions appear as indicated.

### Administrative Regulations Related to School Health Policy

#### Cessation of Breathing

As from gas poisoning, electric shock, drowning, mechanical obstruction. Rescue victim quickly but with caution; for example, break patient's contact with electrical circuit, being careful to avoid contact with it. Start CPR. Call 911.

#### Convulsions

1.  Protect the child from further injury by removing objects from the immediate environment.

2.  If able, try to place child on side.

3.  DO NOT attempt to force teeth open.

4.  Loosen clothing if possible.

5.  Notify school nurse.

#### Insect Stings

A.  Severe Reactions

  The Epipen is to be used by a nurse, key teacher or principal if a physician cannot be reached and the patient develops unusual reaction to an insect sting.

In known reactor, the first available adult who has been trained will give Epipen.

If the child is a known reactor, secure individual standing orders from the patient's physician and attach to his/her record. Names of these children should be publicly posted in the Principal's office.

#### Poison

Call a physician, and/or Poison Control Center, and 911 and transport victim to a hospital emergency room at once with poison, container or plant. Notify emergency room of nature of case. If it will take more than 5-10 minutes to contact a physician or reach the hospital, and if the victim is fully conscious and is not convulsing, give him/her milk or water and induce vomiting promptly. Vomiting should not be induced if the victim has Hydro-carbons or a strong corrosive such as lye, ammonia or acids.

To induce vomiting, tickle the back of the victim's throat with the blunt end of a spoon or with the finger. When he/she vomits, keep the victim's head lower than his/her hips to help avoid choking and coughing. If you cannot get the victim to vomit within a few minutes, don't lose any more time trying. If the victim is in convulsion, keep him/her lying as quietly as possible in a darkened room. Give nothing by mouth. Call a physician at once for instructions. Prevent chilling. Do not give alcohol in any form. Always save the poison container (with its label) and any remaining contents. If the victim has been taken to a hospital, notify his/her own physician as soon as possible. The telephone number of the Poison Information Center, CT State Department of Health, is 674-3456 (Farmington or 1-800-343-2722 UCONN Health Center.)

#### Head Injury

Check for vital signs and pupils and record. Observe for headache, vomiting, nystagmus, drowsiness, loss of equilibrium. Refer for medical attention if any of these occurs. An ice bag may be applied to location of injury. Notify parents/guardian of the head injury.

### Massive hemorrhage

Using gloves and universal precautions:

1.  Apply firm and constant pressure with clean cloth to the site of bleeding.

2.  If limb severed, protect the severed part.

3.  Notify school nurse immediately.

#### Fractures

Advise prompt medical attention. If medical attention is delayed and patient must be moved, apply splints and ice bag to allay pain. If compound, apply sterile dressings to injured area. Avoid dragging or jolting patient or any part of his/her body unless necessary to save his/her life. If face is buried, clear passage for nose and mouth to allow breathing. If spinal fracture is suspected and patient must be moved carry him/her face down and keep back concave. Treat for shock if indicted. Apply cervical collar where indicated.

#### Treatment for Accidents/Illnesses

See Standing orders located in each nurses office.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-203 Sanitation.

* 10-204 Vaccination.

* 10-204a Required immunizations.

* 10-204c Immunity from liability

* 10-205 Appointment of school medical advisors.

* 10-206 Health assessments.

* 10-206a Free health assessments.

* 10-207 Duties of medical advisers.

* 10-208 Exemption from examination or treatment.

* 10-208a Physical activity of student restricted;  boards to honor notice.

* 10-209 Records not to be public. (as amended by P.A. 03-211)

* 10-210 Notice of disease to be given parent or guardian.

* 10-212 School nurses and nurse practitioners.

* 10-212a Administration of medicines by school personnel.

* 10-213 Dental hygienists.

* 10-214 Vision, audiometric and postural screening:  When required; notification of parents re defects; record of results.  (As amended by PA 96-229 An Act Concerning Scoliosis Screening)

* 10-214a Eye protective devices.

* 10-214b Compliance report by local or regional board of education.

* 10-217a Health services for children in private nonprofit schools.  Payments from the state, towns in which children reside and private nonprofit schools.   Department of Public Health, Public Health Code - 10-204a-2a, 10-204a-3a and 10-204a-4

* Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (section 438 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended, added by section 513 of P.L. 93-568, codified at 20 U.S.C. 1232g).

* 42 U.S.C. 1320d-1320d-8, P.L. 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)

**Regulation approved:  December 12, 2012**

