## 5141.221 - Pediculosis (Head Lice)

The Board of Education authorizes the Superintendent of Schools to work with the School Medical Advisor in an effort to develop and implement regulations concerning pediculosis or head lice. The regulations are to include identification, treatment procedures, and notification process which will insure prompt and medically accurate action for students having pediculosis. The regulations are also to include assertive procedures which will reduce the opportunity of spreading pediculosis to other students.

The Board of Education (Board) is committed to maximizing students' academic performance and physical well-being in a healthy and safe environment. The Board recognizes that head lice infestations do not pose a health hazard, are not a sign of uncleanliness, and are not responsible for the spread of any disease.  However, archaic policies cause many unnecessary absences from school with potential negative effects on academic performance.  Misinformation about head lice causes anxiety for parents/guardians and school staff. The goals of providing a healthy and safe environment for students with head lice are to (1) maximize academic performance; and (2) minimize absences due to unnecessary exclusion from school of students with head lice.

### Management on the Day of Diagnosis

The Board recognizes that head lice infestation poses little risk to others and does not result in additional health problems. The management of pediculosis should proceed so as to not disrupt the education process. Nonetheless, any staff member who suspects a student has head lice will report this to the school nurse or Principal District employees will act to ensure that student confidentiality is maintained in order to avoid embarrassment.

The Principal or school nurse will notify the parent/guardian by telephone or other available means if their child is found to have head lice.  Verbal and written instructions for treatment will be given to the family of each identified student. Based upon the school nurse's recommendation, other children who were most likely to have had direct head-to-head contact with the assessed child may be screened for head lice.

### Criteria for Return to School

Students will be allowed to return to school after proper treatment as recommended by the school nurse. The school nurse may recheck a child's head. In addition, the school nurse is encouraged to offer extra help or information to families of children who are repeatedly or chronically infested.

Legal Reference:  

* American Academy of Pediatrics, Clinical Report on Head Lice Infestation, September 2002, Revised February 2007.

**Policy adopted:  December 12, 2012**

