## 5142.1 - Relations with Non-custodial Parents

The Board of Education, unless informed otherwise, assumes that there are no restrictions regarding the non-custodial parent's right to be kept informed of the student's school progress and activities.  If restrictions are made relative to these rights, the custodial parent will be required to submit a certified copy of the court order, to the Principal, which curtails these specific rights.

Unless there are specific court-imposed restrictions, such as a final divorce decree which grants sole custody and control to only one parent or specifically denies visitation rights of a parent, or a restraining order denying such rights, and a certified copy of such document is submitted to the Principal, the non-custodial parent, or parents with shared custody upon written request may view the student's educational, medical or similar records maintained in such student's cumulative record, receive school progress reports, have access to remove the student from school, and have an opportunity to conference with the student's teacher(s).

In addition, upon written request to the child's school principal, the school will subsequently and routinely mail to the parent making the request copies of all school information which is normally sent home with the child. This will include mailings of copies of report cards and class and school newsletters during the school year in which the request is made. Non-custodial parents and parents with shared custody not normally receiving materials from the school may annually request this service.

Custodial parents have the responsibility to keep the school office informed as to the address of residence, in a manner determined by the school, and how he/she may be contacted at all times. Any legal documents which restrict the rights of the non-custodial parent must be provided by the custodial parent. If school personnel anticipate a possible student abduction, law enforcement personnel are to be notified immediately, and the student will remain on school property pending the arrival of law enforcement officials.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-15b Access of parent or guardian to student's records

* 46b-56 Access of records of minor children by non-custodial parent

* Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974

* Department of Education 34 C.F.R. Part 99 (May 9, 1980 45FR 30802) regs. implementing

* FERPA enacted as part of 438 of General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g) - parent and student privacy and other rights with respect to educational records.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

