## 5142.2 - Student Dismissal Precautions

No student may be released from school to anyone other than the parent, guardian or child protective services personnel and law enforcement officers pursuant to law, unless the name of the individual seeking release of the student appears on a list provided by the parent or guardian.

A student may be released to either parent unless a custodial parent supplies the building principal with a certified copy of a court order or divorce decree to the contrary.

The Superintendent of Schools shall develop procedures to enable parents and guardians to amend the list of persons authorized to obtain the release of their children.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

The building principal of each school in the district shall maintain lists of individuals who are authorized to obtain the release of students in attendance at the school.  No student may be released in the custody of any individual, not the parent or guardian of the student, unless the individual's name appears upon the list.

Parents or guardians may submit a list of individuals authorized to obtain the release of their children from school at the time of the child's enrollment.

A parent or guardian may amend a list submitted pursuant to this regulation at any time, in writing.

Certified copies of any court orders or divorce decrees provided by the custodial parent, which restrict a parent's ability to seek the release of their child, shall be maintained by the principal of each school.

If any individual seeks the release from school of a student he or she must report to the school office and present identification deemed satisfactory by the building principal.  The principal must check the authorized list and relevant court orders or divorce decrees before a student may be released.

In the event of an emergency the principal may release a student to some individual not appearing on the approved list only if the parent of guardian has been contacted by the principal and has approved the release, and the principal determines that an emergency exists.

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

