## 5144.3 - Discipline of Students with Disabilities

Students with disabilities are neither immune from a school district's disciplinary process nor entitled to participate in programs when their behavior impairs the education of other students. Students with disabilities who engage in disruptive activities and/or actions dangerous to themselves or others will be disciplined in accordance with their IEP, any behavioral intervention plan and this policy.  During any period of disciplinary action, the student will continue to receive a "free appropriate public education" in accordance with federal law and applicable regulations.

### Manifestation Determination

When a disciplinary change in placement is being considered for more than ten \(10\) days in a given school year related to a disabled student's behavior, the IEP team \(PPT\) and other qualified district personnel will review the relationship between the student's disability and the behavior.  Such a review must take place as soon as possible, but no later than 10 school days from the date of the decision to take disciplinary actions which would remove a student with a disability from his/her current educational placement for more than ten school days.

The team will determine whether the student's behavior is a manifestation of the disability and whether the student's disability impaired his or her ability to control or understand the impact and consequences of the behavior.

### Disciplinary Action for Behavior that is Not a Manifestation

Once the team determines that the behavior was not a manifestation of the disability, disciplinary procedures will be applied to the student in the same manner as applied to non-disabled students.

Disciplinary Action and/or Alternative Placement for Behavior that is a Manifestation

A student with disabilities whose behavior is determined to be a manifestation of his or her disability may not be expelled but will be disciplined in accordance with his or her IEP, any behavioral intervention plan and this policy.

In addition to any disciplinary action provided for in the IEP or behavioral intervention plan, a disabled student may be suspended for up to 10 school days cumulatively in a school year to the extent suspension would be applied to non-disabled students, without the need to provide any services. Disabled students may be suspended for additional removals for up to 10 days for separate acts of misconduct as long as the removals do not constitute a pattern or change in placement. School administrators and the student’s special education teacher shall determine the level of services to be provided to the disabled student in subsequent suspensions beyond the first 10 days cumulative in a school year.

Disabled students carrying weapons to school or to a school function or possessing, selling, or soliciting drugs may be removed to an alternative setting but not more than 45 days.

A hearing officer may order removal to an alternative setting for 45 days where the district demonstrates by substantial evidence that maintaining the student's current placement is substantially likely to result in injury to the student or others.

Either before or within 10 days after any change in placement for more than ten days related to a disciplinary problem, the IEP team \(PPT\) must meet to determine an appropriate alternative setting, to develop a behavioral assessment plan or to review and modify an existing intervention plan, and review and modify the IEP where necessary.

Nothing in this policy shall prohibit the IEP team \(PPT\) team from establishing consequences for disruptive or unacceptable behavior as a part of the student's IEP.  The plan shall be subject to all procedural safeguards established by the IEP process.

### Expedited Hearings

An expedited hearing is available when:

1. the parent/guardian disagrees with the IEP team \(PPT\) team's determination regarding manifestation or with any decision regarding placement.

2. the parent/guardian disagrees with the proposed new placement following an interim alternative placement.

3. the district believes it is dangerous for the student to be returned to the previous placement


During any challenge to placement, the student will stay in the alternative placement.

### Students Not Identified as Disabled

Students who have not been identified as disabled may be subjected to the same disciplinary measures applied to children without disabilities if the district did not have "knowledge" of the disability.

The district has knowledge of the disability when:

1. the parent has expressed concern in writing that the student needs special education.

2. the student's behavior or performance has demonstrated such a need.

3. the parent has requested an evaluation.

4. the student’s teacher or other district personnel have expressed concern about the student’s behavior or performance to the Director of Special Education or other district personnel.


If a request for evaluation is made during the period the student is subject to disciplinary measures, the evaluation will be expedited.

\(cf. 5114 - Suspension/Expulsion/Due Process\)

\(cf. [5125](/policies/5000/5125.md) - Student Records\)

\(cf. 5131 - Conduct\)

\(cf. [5131.6](/policies/5000/5131-6.md) - Drugs, Tobacco, Alcohol\)

\(cf. [5131.7](/policies/5000/5131-7.md) - Weapons and Dangerous Instruments\)

\(cf. 5144 - Discipline/Punishment\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statues
>   * 10-233a through 10-233f.  Suspension, removal and expulsion of students, as amended by PA 95-304 and PA 96-244.
>   * 53a-3 Definitions.
>   * 53a-217b Possession of Firearms and Deadly Weapons on School Grounds.
> 
> * PA 94-221 An Act Concerning School Discipline and Security.
> * GOALS 2000: Educate America Act, Pub.  L. 103-227.
> * 18 U.S.C. 921 Definitions.
> * Title I - Amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Act. \(PL 105-17\)
> * Sec. 314 \(Local Control Over Violence\)
> * Elementary and Secondary Schools Act of 1965, as amended by the Gun Free Schools Act of 1994

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

### Special Education Suspension Procedures

1. All suspension notices and suspension review procedures established by Board policy and state statute shall be followed when suspending a special education student.  In addition, a special education student who is suspended from school shall receive educational services in accordance with the IDEA and its regulations.

2. If a child carries a weapon to school or to a school function or knowingly possesses or uses illegal drugs or sells or solicits the sale of a controlled substance while at school or school function, the District shall, no later than 10 school days after determining to suspend the student, convene a meeting to review the relationship between the student’s disability and the behavior which is subject to discipline, in accordance with the provisions described in paragraphs 2 through 4 below.

3. For all suspensions, in which further disciplinary actions is contemplated, no later than 10 school days after the decision to suspend a student is made, the District shall convene an IEP team \(PPT\) meeting to review and, if appropriate, modify the student's behavior modification plan, as necessary, to address the student's behavior.  If no behavior management plan is in place, the District shall develop an assessment plan to address the behavior.

4. For suspensions of ten days or less, cumulatively in a given school year and for which no further disciplinary action is contemplated, it is not required to do a manifestation determination or a functional behavioral assessment.

5. Manifestation determinations are required for suspensions, beyond the first ten days in a school year, which constitute a pattern and a change in placement.


### Special Education Expulsion Procedures

1. The District shall promptly notify the student's parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) of the disobedience or misconduct and whether the student shall be recommended for expulsion.  All procedural protections pertaining to notice provided under the District's discipline policy shall apply to a notice of recommended expulsion in the case of a special education student.  Such notice shall also include the following information:

  * That an IEP team \(PPT\) shall be convened to determine whether the student's act of gross disobedience/misconduct is a manifestation of his or her disability. The IEP team \(PPT\) meeting shall take place as soon as possible, but at least 10 calendar days after this notice was sent, unless such 10-day notice is waived by the parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\).

  * That the student’s parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) are requested to attend the IEP team \(PPT\) meeting and the date, time, and location of the meeting.


2. For purposes of such manifestation determination review, the IEP team \(PPT\) shall include the members of the student's IEP team and other qualified personnel including, but not limited to, the authorized administrator familiar with the act of misconduct.

3. In carrying out the manifestation determination review, the team shall consider, in terms of the behavior subject to the disciplinary action, all relevant information including:

  * evaluation and diagnostic results, including relevant information supplied by the parents;

  * observations of the student; and

  * the student's IEP and placement.


4. The team shall make the following determinations regarding whether the student's conduct was a manifestation of his or her disability:

  * whether, in relationship to the behavior subject to the disciplinary action, the student's IEP and placement were appropriate and whether the special education, supplementary aids and services, and behavior intervention strategies were provided consistent with the student's IEP and placement;

  * whether the student's disability did or did not impair the ability of the student to understand the impact and consequences of the behavior subject to the disciplinary action; and

  * whether the student's disability did or did not impair the ability of the student to control the behavior subject to the disciplinary action.


5. If, at the manifestation review conference, it is determined that the behavior of the student was a manifestation of his or her disability, the authorized administrator shall not recommend expulsion.  The authorized administrator may request a review of the appropriateness of the educational placement of the student.  During the period necessary to propose a new placement, the student will remain in his or her then current placement unless:

  * the student is suspended for a period not to exceed 10 school days. During the first ten days of suspension cumulatively during a school year the District need not provide educational services; additional suspension time beyond the initial ten days requires the provision of services which is to be determined by the building administrator and the student’s special education teacher; or

  * the parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) and the District agree on an interim placement; or

  * the District obtains an order from a court of competent jurisdiction or a State of Connecticut hearing officer changing the then current placement or providing for other appropriate relief.


6. If, at the manifestation review conference, it is determined that the behavior of the student was not a manifestation of his or her disability, the authorized administrator may recommend that the student be considered for expulsion by the School Board. The expulsion notice to the parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) shall also include the following provisions:

  * The parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) are entitled to all rights provided under the IDEA and those set forth  in state statutes as available to the parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) from the District.  A copy of the parent'\(s\)/guardian'\(s\) rights shall be included with the expulsion hearing notice.

  * In addition to issues regularly determined at an expulsion hearing, the authorized administrator must present evidence that the IEP team \(PPT\) met and concluded that the student's misconduct was not a manifestation of his or her disability which shall be duly noted by the Board.

  * The administration shall ensure that relevant special education and disciplinary records of the student are transmitted for consideration by the School Board.


7. If a special education student is expelled from school in accordance with the procedures set forth above, the District shall convene an IEP team \(PPT\) meeting to develop an educational program to deliver educational services to the student during such period of expulsion which will enable the student to appropriately progress in the general curriculum and appropriately advance toward achieving the goals of the student’s IEP.


### Weapon and Drug Offenses

In accordance with the above procedures, the District may take one or more of the following steps when a student with a disability carries a weapon to school or to a school function or knowingly possesses or uses illegal drugs or sells or solicits the sale of a controlled substance while at school or at a school-related function:

1. Suspend the student from school for 10 school days or less.

2. Convene an IEP team \(PPT\) to consider placement in an interim alternative educational setting for up to 45 calendar days.  At such conference, the IEP team \(PPT\) shall also follow the procedures described in paragraphs 1 through 4 above.

3. If the parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) disagree with the alternative educational placement or with the District-proposed placement, and the parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) initiate a due process hearing, the student must remain in the alternative educational setting during the authorized review proceedings, unless the parent\(s\)/guardian\(s\) and the District agree on another placement.

4. Seek an order from a court of competent jurisdiction or a State of Connecticut Hearing Officer to change the student's educational placement if the District demonstrates that the current placement is substantially likely to result in injury to the student or to others.


**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

