## 5145.71 - Surrogate Parent Program

Any child considered by the school district to require special education and whose natural parents are unavailable as defined by law, or who is a ward of the state, may be provided a surrogate parent appointed by the Commissioner of Education in the manner provided by law.

The function of the surrogate parent will be to act as the child's advocate in the educational decision-making process, which includes all special education identification, evaluation, placement, hearing, mediation and appeal procedures conducted for the student.

In addition, the surrogate parent will also act as the child’s advocate in the evaluation and planning procedures available to children under Section 504 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act.

Surrogate parents will be informed, by the Board as are regular parents, annually of Board policies regarding student conduct and discipline and if the Board suspends or expels a child for conduct that violates Board policy and seriously disrupts the educational process, for carrying a weapon or for selling or distributing drugs.

The law makes provisions whereby a parent or legal guardian or the student for whom a surrogate parent has been appointed may contest the surrogate parent appointment.

\(cf. 3511 - Compliance with 504 Regulations\)

\(cf. 5114 - Suspension and Expulsion/Due Process\)

\(cf. 5131 - Conduct\)

\(cf. 5144 - Discipline\)

\(cf. 5145 - Civil, Legal Rights and Responsibility\)

\(cf. [6171](/policies/6000/6171.md) - Special Education\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-94f Definitions.
>   * 10-94g Commissioner of Education to appoint surrogate parent; Procedure for objection to or extension of said appointment. \(as amended by PA 00-48\)
>   * 10-94h Term of surrogate parent.
>   * 10-94i Rights and liabilities of surrogate parents.
>   * 10-94j Regulations re appointment of surrogate parents. \(as amended by PA 00-48\)
>   * 10-94k Funding of surrogate program.
>   * 10-233e Notice as to disciplinary policies and actions.
> 
> * Section 504 U.S. Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 791

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

