## 5145.4 - Nondiscrimination

It is the policy of the Killingly Board of Education to insure equal educational opportunity for all students and to prohibit discrimination because of race, color, religious creed, age, marital status, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, past or present mental disorder, pregnancy, or physical disability, gender identity or expression, ancestry, equal access to school facilities and school premises to Boy Scouts and other designated youth groups in the education programs and activities including but not limited to course offerings, athletic programs, guidance and counseling and tests and procedures through an intensive affirmative action program which shall be an integral part of every aspect of educational policies and, programs to the maximum extent possible.

The Killingly Public Schools pledge to avoid discriminatory actions and, instead, seek to foster equal human and educational relations which will help to attain:

*  Equal rights and opportunities for students and employees in the school community.

*  Equal opportunity for all students to participate in the total program of the schools.

*  Continual study and development of curricula toward improving human relations and understanding and appreciating cultural differences.

*  Training opportunities for improving staff ability and responsiveness to educational and social needs.

*  Opportunities in educational programs which are broadly available to students with access not solely based upon race, color, religious creed, due, marital status, national origin, sex, sexual orientation or physical disability.

Any complaint regarding the implementation of this policy shall be addressed in writing to the respective coordinators:

* Affirmative Action, Section 504 (Handicapped Access and Accommodation) - Ms. Bonnie Brouwer, 779-6740;

* Title VI (Discrimination based in race, color or national origin.) Ms. Kim Burnham, 779-6795;

* OCR (Civil Rights) - Ms. Bonnie Brouwer, 779-6740;

* Title IX (Gender Equity) - Ms. Kim Burnham, 779-6795.

Upon investigation of the complaint, the coordinator shall effectuate any changes deemed necessary to eliminate any discriminatory practices and shall inform the complainant in writing of his or her actions within thirty days of the receipt of such complaint.

If the complainant is not satisfied with the action of the individuals above, within twenty days, the complainant may appeal the action to the Superintendent of Schools. The Superintendent shall hold a hearing within 20 days of receipt of such written request and shall decide what, if any, deemed discriminatory. The Superintendent shall notify the complainant in writing of this decision within seven days after such hearing.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-15c Discrimination in public schools prohibited. School attendance by five-year olds. (Amended by P.A. 97-247 to include "sexual orientation" and P.A. 11-55 to include "gender identity or expression".
>   * 10-153 Discrimination on account of marital status.
>   * 10-209 Records not to be public.
>   * 19-581 through 585 AIDS testing and medical information.
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.
> * Public Act 11-55 An Act Concerning  Discrimination
> * Section 504 and the Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 20 U.S.C.  706(7)(b).
> * American Disability Act of 1989.
> * Chalk v. The United States District Court of Central California.

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

**Policy Revised & Adopted: June 4, 2014**

