## 5145.14 - On-Campus Recruitment

Subject to the provisions of law, all recruiters, including commercial, military and non-military concerns, recruiters representing institutions of higher education, and prospective employers shall be provided equal opportunities of access to students enrolled in the district’s secondary school.  Access may be granted through programs conducted by the Guidance Department.  Such programs may consist of career days, college fairs or individual school visitations.

Except as provided below, military recruiters and institutions of higher education shall, upon request, be given access to the names, addresses and telephone numbers of secondary school students.

On an annual basis, the school district will notify parents of secondary school students of their right to object to the disclosure of the student’s name, address and telephone number to military recruiters or to an institution of higher education.  If a secondary school student or the parent of a secondary school student objects in writing to the disclosure of a student’s name, address or telephone number to a military recruiter or an institution of higher education, then the district shall not disclose the  student’s name, address or telephone number to a military recruiter or an institution of higher education.  The objection shall remain in force until the district re-issues the annual notification referenced above, after which time the parents and/or secondary school student must inform the school district in writing again of their objection to the disclosure of the information described above.

> Legal References: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes 10-221b
> * No Child Left Behind Act, 20 U.S.C §7908
> * National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-107, 115 Stat. 1012

**Policy adopted:  November 5, 2008**

