## 5145.11 - Police in Schools

Schools are responsible for students during school hours which includes protecting each student's constitutional rights, assuring due process in questioning and arrest, and protecting students from any form of illegal coercion.

When police are investigating possible criminal acts which occurred, or may have occurred, on school property, or while under the jurisdiction of the school district, they may question students at school when the following procedures are observed:

1.  Students will be questioned as confidentially and inconspicuously as possible.

2.  Every effort will be made to notify the student's parents so that they may be present during the questioning.  The school principal, or other administrator, will be present.

When investigating a possible criminal violation occurring off school grounds or not part of a school program,  Police will be encouraged to question students in their homes; however, they may be permitted to question students in the schools when the procedures outlined in 1-2 above are observed.

(cf. 1411 - Law Enforcement Agencies)

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

---

### Questioning and Apprehension

When a student becomes involved with law enforcement officers, the officer is to be requested to confer with the student at a time when the student is not under the jurisdiction of the school, if this can be arranged. The following steps shall be taken to cooperate with the authorities:

1.  The officer shall properly identify himself/herself.

2.  Every effort must be made to immediately notify the parent and/or guardian. The principal should make every effort to inform the parent or guardian of the interest of the police authorities.

3.  Every effort must made to ensure, unless the right is waived by the parent or guardian, that a student’s parent or guardian be present if the conference is held in the school. If no parent or guardian is present, the principal or other administrator must be present.

### Police Officer's Rights with Regard to Students

Attorneys generally agree on the following interpretations to three key questions:

1.  Have police officers the right to question students within the school?

  Police officers have no absolute right to enter school premises and demand to interrogate any student. However, a spirit of cooperation should be extended to any bona fide police or law enforcement official who comes to a school seeking to interrogate students.

2.  Have police officers the right to take students from school?

  Police officers have no right to remove a student from the school for purposes of interrogation, and this should not be allowed in the absence of the specific consent of parent or guardian.

  However, police officers, counselors of the juvenile court, or other authorized law enforcement officials have an absolute right to enter the school to take a student into custody or to make a lawful arrest of a student. However, the officer should be made to display either an order signed by a judge or the juvenile court authorizing him/her to take the student into custody, or to display a warrant for the student's arrest.

  The officer need not display a warrant if the officer observed the student commit a violation of law. The officer's oral statement to this effect shall be sufficient. (A witness to this statement is desirable).

  If the student is arrested or taken into custody at a school, the school officials shall take immediate steps to notify the parent, guardian or responsible relative of the minor regarding the release of the minor to such officer, and regarding the place to which the minor is reportedly being taken.

3.  Have the police officers the right to serve a subpoena?

  While police officers have the legal right to serve a subpoena at school, the school system believes that the serving officials should be strongly urged to serve these subpoenas at the home of the student whenever possible. The subpoena may be served only in the school office in the presence of the school principal or designee.

  In all of these situations, every possible step should be taken to insure a minimum of embarrassment or loss of class time for the student.

  The Office of the Superintendent should be notified immediately when any of the above actions have occurred.

(cf. 1411 - Relations with Law Enforcement Agencies)

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**

