## 1110.1 - Parent Involvement

The Killingly Board of Education, based upon educational research, believes that involved parents and families in support of children and their education increase student achievement and success. The Board endorses the "National Standards for Parent/Family Involvement" developed by the National PTA as essential to involve parents and families in their child's education. It further endorses the goals of Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act regarding parent involvement and encourages parents and all adults who play an important role in a child's life, to become active partners in all aspects of their child's education and school experience. To this end, the Killingly Board of Education asserts its continuing commitment to:

1.  Communicating:  Communication between home and school is regular, two-way, and meaningful.

2.  Parenting:  Parenting skills are promoted and supported.

3.  Student Learning:  Parents play an integral role in assisting student learning.

4.  Volunteering: Parents are welcome in the school, and their support and assistance are sought.

5.  School Decision-Making and Advocacy:  Parents are full partners in the decisions that affect children and families.

6.  Collaboration with Community:  Community resources are used to strengthen schools, families, and student learning.

### Capacity-building for Parent Involvement

To ensure effective partnerships between home and school, the Superintendent, as required by “No Child Left Behind,” shall, ensure that this policy is distributed annually to all Title I parents to elicit parent input, review. Parents also have the right to request policy revision. Parent involvement shall include:

* participation in the development of school improvement plans under NCLB;

* participation in the annual evaluation of the parent involvement policy;

* participation in school activities that support the development of: (1) parenting skills, (2) skills to assist their child(ren) in improving academic achievement, as well as understanding of (3) the State academic content standards, achievement standards and assessments, (4) the requirements of NCLB, and (5) how to monitor a child's progress and work with teachers to improve the achievement of their own children.

District responsibilities shall include:

* providing, materials and training to parents to facilitate participation, as listed above;

* supporting staff training and initiatives in the value of parent contributions, building effective home-school relations and communications, coordinated parent involvement programs;

* coordinating preK-12 Title I parent involvement activities and collaborates with local businesses and community-based organizations (CBOs) in parent involvement initiatives;

* ensuring, to the extent possible, that information is available to parents in a language that they can understand; and

* such other reasonable support for parent involvement activities required by NCLB as parents may request.

Legal Reference:   Title A, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act,

42 U.S.C. §1118

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

To implement the District Parent Involvement Policy under "No Child Left Behind," the following regulations are established to support Title I schools and Title I parents.

1.  Title I parents will be involved in the development and annual review of the parent involvement plans through survey feedback, presentations at parent meetings in Title I schools at the annual Title I parents' meeting, via communication through the various media available to our schools (e.g., school and district newsletters, outreach to non-English speaking parents via translation and community workers, school-wide family events, parent-teacher meetings, the educational cable access channel, district Web site, district Lao/Spanish "hot line," and/or such other communication vehicles and may be appropriate and agreed upon by the school and parents). The result of the annual review will be incorporated into the District Improvement Plan required under Title I, ESEA.

2.  The District will provide coordination, technical assistance and other support as needed to Title I schools in planning and implementing effective parent involvement activities to build parent capacity to help their child(ren) to improve student academic achievement (e.g., by providing resources, facilities, seeking and using grant funds, by facilitating training; for staff).

3.  The District will coordinate K-12 parent involvement programs and strategies with the Goodyear Early Childhood Center and Family Resource Center.

4.  The District will coordinate and assist Title I schools in identifying barriers to parent involvement, with particular attention to parents who are economically disadvantaged, disabled, limited English proficient, limited in literacy, or who are of any racial or ethnic minority background. Such assistance may involve, but not necessarily limited to,

  a)  providing assistance in helping parents understand State academic content standards, State student achievement standards, State and local academic assessments, the requirements of parent involvement under NCLB, how to monitor their child(ren)'s academic progress, how to work with teachers to improve academic achievement.

  b)  providing Title I schools and parents with training to help parents work with their children to improve academic achievement.

  c)  collaborating with parents to provide school staff with support for understanding the value of parent involvement, and in how to reach out and communicate to parents as equal partners, fostering leadership among parents in order to broaden the base of parent participation and strengthen ties between parent and school.

  d)  identifying and over-coming barriers to parent involvement through survey, interview, staff and parents’ feedback as well as successful practice already implemented in our schools (e.g., parent meetings are posted at the beginning of the school year and are scheduled at a variety of times to accommodate parents' schedules; Killingly schools conducts programs that encourage and support parents in more fully participating in the education of their children, including, the Title I Annual Meeting and Home-School Compact.

Killingly Title I schools each sponsor Parent Advisory Councils as well as Parent Compacts to provide advice about parent involvement on Title 1 programs.

Legal Reference:   Title A, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary. Education Act,

 * 42 U.S.C. §1118

Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004