## 1111 - Use of Killingly Education/Government Television Channel

### Mission

It is the mission of the Killingly Education/Government Channel to provide an opportunity for public involvement in local education/government, to inform the public of education/government and community life, and to document education/government activities. The provision of educational opportunities for school children is vital to this mission.

### Goals

It is the goal of the Killingly Education/Government Channel to:

1.  Provide local citizens with increased access to education/government meetings through live and recorded television programming.

2.  Provide television programming to inform local citizens of the operations and activities of the local education/government and its agencies.

3.  Provide television programming to increase information available to citizens about political issues, candidates and elections.

4.  Produce and transmit other informational television programs of interest and value to Killingly residents which are otherwise neither available nor provided by other sources.

5.  Provide opportunities for citizen involvement and interaction in the development of the Killingly Education/Government Channel programming.

6.  Provide instructional opportunities for Killingly Public School students.

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**

### Operational Guidelines

#### Access

The use of Killingly Education/Government Channel shall be limited to Killingly Board of Education and Town of Killingly Government programming. The use of studio facilities operated by the Board of Education shall have student instruction as their primary goal.

Board of Education sponsored programs include, but are not limited to:

1.  Direct instruction

2.  Presentation of school programs, including political discussions or debates, provided they are sponsored, organized and controlled by school personnel (such activities must be balanced as to content)

3.  Presentation of school activities, performances or ceremonies

4.  Meetings and hearings  (Such coverage shall be "gavel to gavel" and will depict all speakers.)

5.  Other school related activities as approved by the Superintendent

Town of Killingly Government programs include, but are not limited to:

1.  Town hearings and meetings  (Such coverage shall be “gavel to gavel” and will depict all speakers.)

2.  Information regarding procedures, requirements or other technical matters

3.  Presentation of town activities, performances or ceremonies

4.  Items of community interest such as, Springtime Festival, Arts and Craft Festival, etc.  Coverage of such items will be decided on a case-by-case basis and must reflect broad community interest and be of local origin.

#### Political Issues

Political programs will be limited to one local “candidates night” per elected body of a non-partisan format within 30 days of a town election. The appearance of an elected official, (example: the Governor, Senator) in his/her official capacity shall not be considered a political program unless the elected official is running for office and the appearance is within 60 days of that election.

#### Authority

All matters regarding the use and implementation of programming for Killingly Education/Government Channel will rest with the Superintendent of Schools and Town Manager or their designee(s).  All matters related to the establishment of policy will rest with the “Ad-hoc Video Committee” or its replacement.

#### Advertising

Advertising will be limited to product, ticket sales, and free events sponsored or approved by the Killingly Board of Education and/or Killingly Town Council agencies only.

When local business provide financial/material for televised school related support or town related and approved events programming, the statement, “Sponsored by (name of agency and/or logo)” will be permitted.

#### Copyright

All Killingly Education/Government Channel programming must strictly abide by copyright regulations.

#### Copying

Copies of locally developed programs will be made available from time to time at an established rate of $10 per 30 minutes or a fraction thereof. This fee can be modified at the discretion of the Superintendent of Schools and Town Manager or their designee(s).

#### Facilities/Equipment

The studio and equipment located within Killingly Public Schools shall be used for the production of Killingly Education/Government Channel programming.  This equipment may be used for such purpose as long as said use does not interfere with the operation of the schools education program. The education of the public school students is the primary function of this equipment.

#### Personnel

The Town Manager, Superintendent of Schools shall hire/appoint a person to be responsible for the following:

* Killingly Education/Government Channel character generator operation,

* operation of the "head end" equipment,

* coordination of all Killingly Education/Government Channel activities,

* solicitation and training of volunteers to produce Killingly Education/Government Channel programs,

* scheduling use of facilities/equipment, communication between the school instructional program and Killingly Education/Government Channel production crews,

* development of needs lists; and

* any other responsibilities as deemed appropriate.

#### Procedures

A “Video Proposal” form must be completed prior to the development of any program produced for Killingly Education/Government Channel which is not developed by school or town personnel. (See attached form.)

**Regulation approved:  April 7, 1999**