## 1220 - Citizen’s Ad Hoc Advisory Committees

The Board of Education supports the concept of ad hoc advisory committees, both for the Board of Education directly and for the staff.

The involvement of the members of the public in assisting the Board of Education and the staff in reaching for the best possible decisions is a well established principle in public school education except in those situations where insufficient time will prevent the advisory committee from functioning properly.

\(cf. [1312](/policies/1000/1312.md) - Public Complaints\)

\(cf. [5145.2](/policies/5000/5145-2.md) - Freedom of Speech/Expression\)

\(cf. [6144](/policies/6000/6144.md) - Controversial Issues\)

\(cf. 6161 - Equipment, Books, Materials: Provision/Selection\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Academic Freedom Policy \(adopted by Connecticut State Board of Education, 9/9/81\)

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**

---

### Membership

1. The Board of Education may solicit nominations from community organizations and from residents of the community and may welcome the names of volunteers.  From the pool of those so nominated, the Board will select and appoint committee members.

2. In making nominations and in fulfilling committee positions, the following points should be considered:

  a.  Knowledge of and interest in public education

  b.  Particular skills or talents which may be useful to a particular committee

  c.  Previous experience or background for such work

  d.  Community participation

  e.  Ability to encompass sentiments or ideas held by a significant portion of the community

3. Because broad and complex questions are to be studied, the committee size should be large enough to provide for a full range of ideas and talents.

4. Each committee should include representative employees, nominated by the Superintendent, to

  a.  serve as resource persons to the committee and assist in obtaining information about the schools.

  b.  provide a liaison with the central administration and other committees.

5. Because advisory committees are ad hoc groups, their tenure is normally for the time necessary to complete their study, unless appointed as continuing committees.  Vacancies which may occur will be filled by the Board whenever practicable.


### Procedures

1. In order to convey to a committee the concerns of the Board of Education, a statement will be prepared outlining the reason for the formation of the committee and listing questions on which the Board would like to have advice. The questions will be suggestive rather than prescriptive, and the committee is free to deal with other questions it considers relevant to the problem.  It should be understood, however, that the function of these committees is to advise the Board on matters of policy and not to deal in detail with procedures, which are the proper province of the professional staff.

2. It is expected that each committee will have officers elected by the committee's members. It is suggested that these include:

  A.  A Chairperson \(non-professional\), whose duties would include scheduling of meetings, appointment of sub-committees, and acting as presiding officer.

  B.  A Secretary \(a member of the school staff\), who can assist the committee in obtaining information and preparing reports and serve as a liaison with the school staff.


**Regulation approved:  April 7, 1999**

