## 1250 - Visits to the Schools

The Board of Education and staff of the school system welcome and strongly encourage members of the community and other interested persons to visit the schools.  School improvements often come from suggestions originating in such visits.

The Superintendent of Schools is authorized to establish regulations as will:

1.  Encourage visitors to observe our schools.

2.  Require all visitors to register in the office of the Principal upon their arrival at the school.

3.  Channel expressions of approval as well as constructive criticism to the Board.

4.  Ensure that such visits will enhance the effect of the educational program rather than hinder it.

5.  Provide for appropriate hospitality for visitors.

### Board Member Visits

Board of Education members who visit schools of their own volition have no more authority than any other citizen.  Board members have authority only in regularly called meetings of the Board, or when delegated specific tasks by Board action.

(cf. 9010 - Limits of Authority)

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**

---

### School Visitors

Under normal conditions, students are urged not to bring visitors to school.  Their presence can create problems and interruptions that are unnecessary.

There are occasions, however, when visitors are permissible and welcome.  Students who wish to have a visitor, must contact the main school office at least one day in advance of the anticipated visit.

As a general rule, visitors should be of high school age and from out-of-town, and not absent from their own school unless they have their Principal's permission to be absent.

Small children are not to be brought to school for any reason.

Any visitor who is permitted in our school is the responsibility of the student who brings the visitor.  The visitor must accompany the Killingly student throughout the day and is responsible for obeying all school rules.

**Regulation approved:  April 7, 1999**
