## 1321 - Public Performances by Students

The Board of Education recognizes that worthy educational values may be served by student participation in civic and community affairs.  Instructors are encouraged to provide students for public performances when such performances contribute to the educational process and objectives of that particular class and when it does not interfere unduly with other classes or activities within the school.

School groups and individuals may, with the permission of the principal, participate in local public events which fall into the following classifications:

1.  Events sponsored by the schools.  Educational events in which the school serves as host shall have priority in scheduling appearances.

2.  Community functions organized in the interests of the school, such as those originated by the PTA or other parent group.

3.  Non-commercial civic occasions of community, county, state or national interest of sufficient breadth to enlist general sympathy and cooperation.

4.  Events that are primarily patriotic in nature, such as Veteran's Day.

5.  Charity benefit activities provided such activity has been specifically approved in advance by the Superintendent.

6.  Programs sponsored by established character-building agencies, or programs sponsored jointly by the school system and mass communication media where the time or space given to the programs are of a public nature.

School groups may not participate in events that fall into any of the following classifications:

1.  Events that are for the purpose of private gain or for the advertising of any commercial project or product.  A school name, the names of school-sponsored groups or school equipment shall not be exploited in events of a commercial nature.

2.  Events that are for the furtherance of any politically partisan interest. In questionable cases the matter shall be referred to the Board of Education.

3.  Events that cause undue amount of interference with the regular school program, or that cause an excessive amount of absence due to rehearsal or preparation.

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**