## 1330 - Use of School Facilities

Since school buildings and grounds are public property, the Board of Education may make them available for purposes other than education when they are not in use for school purposes.

The Board of Education shall grant the use of school facilities for activities of an educational, cultural, civic, social, recreational, governmental or general political nature, Boy Scouts and other designated youth groups which are sponsored by responsible local persons, organizations, agencies, or institutions, as permitted under law.

In order to maximize student learning and community use of facilities, the Superintendent, in cooperation with representatives of the public library and recreation department of the community shall on a regular basis conduct an instructional time and facility usage assessment.

Types of activities which will not be permitted;

1.  Any purpose in conflict with the mission or goals of the school district.

2.  Activities which are unlawful.

3.  Fund-raising campaigns except as permitted by Board of Education policy or by special action of the Board of Education. (option: "except as permitted by the Superintendent.")

4.  Any activity which may be injurious to the buildings, grounds or equipment of the schools.

Consistent with this policy the Superintendent shall approve and schedule the use of school facilities by an individual or group and shall develop guidelines for community use of the schools.

Legal Reference:

* Connecticut General Statutes

  * 10-239 Use of school facilities for other purposes.

  * PA 97-290 An Act Enhancing Educational Choices and Opportunities

**Policy adopted: June 4, 2014**