## 1331 - Smoke Free Environment

The possession, use, sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages by any person at any time within the buildings or on the grounds of the public schools is prohibited.

In accordance with law and to promote the health and safety of all students staff, the District prohibits all employees, students and patrons from smoking using tobacco or tobacco products in all school facilities, buildings and buses or other District transportation at all times, including athletic events and meetings. This prohibition extends to all facilities the district owns/operates, contracts for or leases to provide educational services, routine health care, daycare or early childhood development services to children, as well as facilities in which services are not provided to children.

Tobacco includes, but is not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, snuff, smoking tobacco, smokeless tobacco, nicotine delivering devices, chemicals or devices that produce the same flavor or physical effect of nicotine substances; and any other tobacco or nicotine innovations.

\(cf. [1120](/policies/1000/1120.md) - Board of Education Meetings\)

\(cf. [1330](/policies/1000/1330.md) - Use of School Facilities\)

\(cf. [5131.6](/policies/5000/5131-6.md) - Drugs and Alcohol\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 19a-342 Smoking prohibited in certain places. Signs required. Penalties.
>   * 21a-242 Schedules of controlled substances
> 
> * PL 107-110, Section 4303, "Nonsmoking Policy for Children's Services"
> * 20 U.S.C. 7181-7184 The Pro Children Act of 2001

Policy adopted:  February 7, 1990

Policy Revised:  April 10, 2002

**Policy Revised and adopted: December 11, 2013**

---

The following rules shall apply to all facilities operated by the Board of Education. As used here, "smoke" or "smoking" shall mean the lighting or carrying of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or similar device, and any other items containing or reasonably resembling tobacco or tobacco products.

1. No person shall smoke in any room of any school district facility.

2. Students are not permitted to smoke in any school district facility or on school grounds at any time, nor while under school supervision away from the school facilities, nor while on a school bus.


\(cf. [1120](/policies/1000/1120.md) - Board of Education Meetings\)

\(cf. [5131.1](/policies/5000/5131-1.md) - Bus Conduct\)

\(cf. [5131.6](/policies/5000/5131-6.md) - Drugs, Tobacco, Alcohol\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 21a-242 Schedules of controlled substance.
>   * 19a-342 Smoking prohibited in certain places.
> 
> * 20 U.S.C. 7181-7184 The Pro Children Act of 2001

**Regulation approved: December 11, 2013**

