## 0200 - Goals

### Mission and Functions

The Killingly Board of Education shall develop and maintain a complete system of public education opportunities in accordance with the law and the best interests of the town.

### Philosophy

The Killingly Board of Education believes that in our democratic society each person, without exception, is an important resource to our nation.  We further believe that it is the primary function of our schools to develop this resource to the greatest extent possible.

Our schools must provide challenges and experiences which continually foster the development of students' academic competencies, interests, abilities, and attitudes.  Equipped with motivation, skills, knowledge and values, individuals will be prepared to realize personal success and responsible citizenship.

The Board believes that the educational process in our schools should be supported by educators, students, parents/guardians, and the entire community, for a commitment to today's education is a commitment to society's future.

### Mission

The Killingly Public Schools are committed to the excellence of our students, staff and programs.  We believe that education is more a process than a product, lifelong in duration and essential to the maintenance of a free society. As leaders in the community, our mission is to educate all children to become the most productive, self-fulfilled citizens possible. In an ever-changing world, it is our responsibility, in concert with parents, to impart to students the requisite knowledge, the curiosity, skills, abilities and attitudes to acquire new knowledge and the foundation necessary to make the critical decisions in life.

### Goals

We will strive to maximize each student’s potential so s/he demonstrates the skills, knowledge and competencies needed in society.

We will strive to reach a full partnership with community and Town Council.

We will continue to provide a safe learning environment throughout our system.

These goals are presented with the full realization that the school is only one of several social institutions or influences affecting the child. Its contribution is modified by the intellectual, social, emotional, and affective potentialities that each child brings to the school environment. Our intent is that the school should contribute as fully as possible to the development of each child in the directions indicated by the goals stated.

Legal Reference:   Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-220 Duties of boards of education.

**Policy adopted:  April 7, 1999**

Policy revised:

* May 12, 2004