## 0521 - Nondiscrimination

The District shall promote nondiscrimination and an environment free of harassment based on an individual's race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, national origin, disability, marital status or age or because of the race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability, marital status or age of any other persons with whom the individual associates. The District provides equal access to the Boy Scouts and other designated youth groups.

In keeping with requirements of federal and state law, the District strives to remove any vestige of discrimination in employment, assignment and promotion of personnel; in educational opportunities and services offered to students; in student assignment to schools and classes; in student discipline; in location and use of facilities; in educational offerings and materials; and in accommodating the public at public meetings.

The Board encourages staff to improve human relationships within the schools and to establish channels through which citizens can communicate their concerns to the administration and the Board.

The Superintendent shall appoint and make known the individuals to contact on issues concerning the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1974, Title VI, Title VII, Title IX and other civil rights or discrimination issues.  The Board will adopt and the District will publish grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints.

Federal civil rights laws prohibit discrimination against an individual because he/she has opposed any discrimination act or practice or because that person has filed a charge, testified, assisted or participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing. ADA further prohibits anyone from coercing, intimidating, threatening or interfering with an individual for exercising the rights guaranteed under the Act.

### Discrimination Grievance Procedure

The purpose of this procedure is to secure, at the lowest possible administrative level, equitable solutions to problems, which may arise concerning claims of discrimination.  Evidence of reprisal against a complainant or witness shall be viewed as a violation of this policy.

Any person who wishes to inquire or to register a complaint concerning alleged discrimination in the Killingly Public Schools shall have an opportunity to bring such concerns to the attention of the Civil Rights Compliance Officers or Superintendent, who has the authority to resolve such complaints. The following grievance procedure shall be utilized by any student, parent or employee in making a complaint or inquiry. Officials shall be governed by this procedure.

**Level I**:  Within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged incident, the complainant shall discuss the alleged discriminatory act or practice with the Civil Rights Compliance Officer, the Principal, Assistant Principal, Superintendent of Schools or Assistant Superintendent of Schools. If satisfaction cannot be achieved through informal discussion and the complainant wishes to pursue the matter, the following procedure shall be initiated:

**Level II**:  The complainant shall, within forty-five (45) calendar days of the alleged incident, on forms provided, put the complaint in writing and file it with a Civil Rights Compliance Officer. Within five (5) working days a conference must be held.  Within five (5) working days following the conference:

(a)  if the complaint IS resolved to the satisfaction of both parties the Compliance Officer shall verify such outcomes with the complainant in written form with a copy sent to the Superintendent of Schools; or,

(b)  if the complaint IS NOT resolved to the satisfaction of both parties, it must be referred, in writing, by the Compliance Officer to the Superintendent of Schools.  The Superintendent shall keep the Board of Education apprised of any grievance reaching Level II (b).

**Level III**:  Within ten (10) working days after receipt of such complaint, the Superintendent must hold a hearing for the purpose of resolving the grievance.  A full record of such hearing shall be kept by the Superintendent.  Within five (5) workings of that hearing, the Superintendent shall render the decision and the reason therefore in writing to the complainant with a copy to the Board of Education.

**Level IV**:  If the complainant is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level III, or if no decision has been rendered by the Superintendent within five (5) working days after the hearing, the complainant may file the grievance again with the Board of Education within five (5) working days.  Within fifteen (15) working days after receiving the complainant's written appeal, the Board shall meet with the complainant for the purposes of resolving the grievance.  The decision of the Killingly Board of Education shall be rendered in writing within five (5) working days.

Since it is important that grievances be processed as rapidly as possible, the number of days indicated at each level should be considered as a maximum, and every effort should be made to expedite the process.  The time limits specified may, however, be extended by mutual agreement of all parties in writing.

(cf. 4111 - Recruitment and Selection)

(cf. 4111.1/4211.1 - Affirmative Action)

(cf. 4118.11 - Nondiscrimination)

(cf. 4118.111 - Grievance Procedure-Title IX)

(cf. 4118.113/4218.113 - Harassment)

(cf. 5145.4 - Nondiscrimination)

(cf. 5145.5 - Sexual Harassment)

(cf. 5145.51 - Peer Sexual Harassment)

(cf. 5145.52 - Harassment)

(cf. 5145.6 - Student Grievance Procedure)

(cf. 6121 - Nondiscrimination)

(cf. 6121.1 - Equal Educational Opportunity)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Title VII, Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. 2000e, et seq.
> * 29 CFR 1604.11, EEOC Guidelines on Sex Discrimination.
> * Title IX of the Educational Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
> * 34 CFR Section 106.8(b), OCR Guidelines for Title IX.
> * Definitions, OCR Guidelines on Sexual Harassment, Fed. Reg. Vol 62, #49, 29 CFR Sec. 1606.8 (a0 62 Fed Reg. 12033 (March 13, 1997) and 66 Fed. Reg. 5512 (January 19, 2001)
> * 20 U.S.C. 7905 (Boy Scouts of America Equal Access Act contained in No Child Left Behind Act of 2001)
> * Meritor Savings Bank. FSB v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57 (1986)
> * Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, No. 97-282 (U.S. Supreme Court, June 26,1998)
> * Gebbser v. Lago Vista Indiana School District, No. 99-1866, (U.S. Supreme Court, June 26,1998)
> * Davis v. Monro County Board of Education, No. 97-843, (U.S. Supreme Court, May 24, 1999.)
> * The Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Act of 1974, as amended, 38U.S.C. ยง4212
> * Title II of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008
> * 46a 60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.
> * 10-15c Discrimination in public schools prohibited. School attendance by five-year olds. (Amended by P.A. 97-247 to include "sexual orientation" and P.A. 11-55 to include "gender identity or expression")
> * 17a-101 Protection of children from abuse.
> * The Americans with Disabilities Act as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008
> * Public Law 111-256
> * Meacham v. Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory 128 S.Ct. 2395, 76 U.S.L.W. 4488 (2008)
> * Federal Express Corporation v. Holowecki 128 S.Ct. 1147, 76 U.S.L.W. 4110 (2008)
> * Kentucky Retirement Systems v. EEOC 128 S.Ct. 2361, 76 U.S.L.W. 4503 (2008)
> * Sprint/United Management Co. v. Mendelsohn 128 S.Ct. 1140, 76 U.S.L.W. 4107 (2008)
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-153 Discrimination on account of marital status.
>   * 46a-60 Discriminatory employment practices prohibited.
>   * 46a-81c Discrimination in employment or discharge on account of sexual orientation prohibited
> * Federal Law:
>   * Title VII of the Civil Rights Act 1964
>   * Section 504 and the Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 20 U.S.C. 706(7)(b).
>   * American Disability Act of 1989.
>   * Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.
>   * Civil Rights Act of 1987.

**Policy adopted: March 12, 2014**
