## 0521.1 - Grievance Procedure for Section 504, Title IX, and Title VII Regulations

The Killingly Board of Education does not knowingly condone discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex or handicap in admission or access to, or treatment, or employment in its programs or activities.

Inquiries regarding compliance may be directed to a Civil Rights Compliance Officer, the Principal, Assistant Principal, Superintendent of Schools, or the Assistant Superintendent of Schools. Receipt and initial investigation of any complaint alleging non-compliance shall be directed to a Civil Rights Compliance Officer.

### Definitions

A "grievance" is a complaint by an employee, or group of employees, or a student or group of students, based upon an alleged violation of the provisions of Section 504, Title IX, or Title VI.

An "aggrieved person" is the person or persons making the complaint.

The term "days" when used in this article, shall, unless otherwise indicated, mean working days.

The term "employee" is considered to apply to any employee of the Killingly Board of Education.

The term "student" is considered to apply to any person legally enrolled in the Killingly Public School System.

The term "teacher" is considered to apply to any teacher employed by the Killingly Board of Education.

The terms "teacher", "employee" or "student" may include a group of teachers, employees or students who are similarly affected by a grievance.

### Purpose

The purpose of this procedure is to secure, at the lowest possible administrative level, equitable solutions to the problems which may arise under the provisions of Section 504, Title IX, or Title VI.

The Killingly Board of Education and the Administration agree that these proceedings shall be kept as informal and confidential as may be appropriate at any level of the procedure.

Nothing herein contained shall be construed as limiting the right of the complainant to discuss the matter informally with any appropriate member of the administration.

Any complainant shall have the right at any time to present any grievance to such persons and through such channels as are designated for that purpose in this article.

### Time Limits

Since it is important that grievances be processed as rapidly as possible, the number of days indicated at each level should be considered as a maximum, and every effort should be made to expedite the process. The time limits specified may, however, be extended by mutual agreement, of all parties in writing.

If a complainant has not filed a grievance in writing as provided herein within 45 days after the aggrieved person knew or should have known of the act or condition on which the grievance is based, then the grievance shall be considered waived.

### Informal Procedure (Level I)

Any student, employee or applicant to a program who thinks that he/she has been discriminated against on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex or handicap shall contact the building Principal, Assistant Principal, Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent or a Civil Rights Compliance Officer within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged occurrence to discuss the nature of the complaint.

The Principal, Assistant Principal, Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent or a Civil Rights Compliance Officer shall maintain a written record of such discussions which shall contain the following:

1.  Full name, address and position (i.e., teacher, student, etc.) of complainant.

2.  Full name and position of person(s) who allegedly discriminated against the complainant.

3.  A concise statement of the facts constituting the alleged discrimination as relayed by the complainant.

4.  Date of the alleged discrimination.

5.  Date of this discussion.

At the time the alleged discrimination is brought to his/her attention the Principal, Assistant Principal, Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent or a Civil Rights Compliance Officer shall review and explain the grievance procedures with the complainant and answer any question he/she may have.  An investigation of the complaint shall begin as soon as practical, but in no case shall more than ten (10) calendar days pass.  Within this time limit, the Principal, Assistant Principal, Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent or a Civil Rights Compliance Officer shall meet informally with the complainant and the individual(s) against whom the complaint was lodged (not necessarily at the same time) and shall provide confidential counseling where advisable and shall finally seek an informal agreement between the parties involved. Every attempt shall be made to seek a solution and resolve the alleged discrimination complaint at this level.

If the complainant is not satisfied with these initial informal procedures, more formal procedures may be initiated by the complainant to further explore and resolve the problem.

### Formal Procedure

1.  **Level II - Civil Rights Compliance Officer**

  If a complainant is not satisfied with the disposition of the problem with the informal procedures, she/he may submit his/her claim as a formal grievance, in writing on an official grievance form, to a Civil Rights Compliance Officer.  This written filing must take place no later than forty-five (45) calendar days after the alleged incident occurred.

  Within five (5) working days a conference must be held.  Within five (5) working days following the conference:

  (a)  if the complaint IS resolved to the satisfaction of both parties, the Compliance Officer shall verify such outcomes with the complainant in written form with a copy sent to the Superintendent of Schools; or,

  (b)  if the complaint IS NOT resolved to the satisfaction of both parties, it must be referred, in writing, by the Compliance Officer to the Superintendent of Schools.

  The Superintendent of Schools shall keep the Board of Education apprised of any grievance reaching Level II (b).

2.  **Level III - Superintendent of Schools**

  Within ten (10) working days after receipt of such complaint, the Superintendent must hold a hearing for the purpose of resolving the grievance.  A full record of such hearing shall be kept by the Superintendent.  Within five (5) workings of that hearing, the Superintendent shall render the decision and the reason therefore in writing to the complainant with a copy to the Board of Education.

3.  **Level IV - Board of Education**

  If the complainant is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level III, or if no decision has been rendered by the Superintendent within five (5) working days after the hearing, the complainant may file the grievance again with the Board of Education within five (5) additional days.  Within fifteen (15) working days after receiving the complainant’s written appeal, the Board shall meet with the complainant for the purposes of resolving the grievance.  The decision of the Killingly Board of Education shall be rendered in writing within five (5) working days.

### General Provisions

Decisions rendered at all levels of the formal grievance shall be in writing setting forth the decision and the reasons therefore.

All documents, communications and records dealing with the processing of a grievance shall be filed separately from the existing files of the participants.

Any person may also file a complaint of illegal discrimination with the Office for Civil Rights (OCR), Washington, D.C., at the same time he/she files the grievance during or after use of the grievance process, or without using the grievance process at all.  If a complaint is filed with the OCR, it must be filed in writing no later than 180 days after the occurrence of the possible discrimination.  Further remedies at law may also be available.

**Regulation approved:  April 7, 1999**