## 3171 - Non-Lapsing Educational Fund

The Board of Education may request that the Killingly Town Council deposit into a non-lapsing account any unexpended funds from the Board of Education's prior fiscal year general operating budget, provided such amount does not exceed one percent of the total budgeted appropriation for education for such prior fiscal year pursuant to Connecticut General Statute Section 10-248a.

Any expenditure from the Non-Lapsing Education Fund established by the Town Council shall be authorized solely by the Board of Education.

The Board of Education may designate these funds for a specific purpose or purposes, including, but not limited to, needs identified in the Capital Improvement Program (C.I.P.), but not otherwise funded in the C.I.P., special education placements of Killingly Students, and unanticipated needs and opportunities. The Board will expend these funds for extraordinary or emergency expenditures which may be necessary yet otherwise not budgeted for.

If the Board wishes to add unexpended funds to the non-lapsing account, it must receive approval from the Killingly Town Council.

The Director of Finance for the Town of Killingly shall create the non-lapsing account and be responsible for the accounting of the funds in accordance with Governmental Accounting Standards and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). It will be subject to the annual audit as required by State statute. The Director of Finance shall provide a monthly reporting of the status of the account to the Manager of Business Affairs of the Killingly Public Schools.

The fund balance will be reviewed by the Board of Education on an annual basis. 

(cf. 3111 - Fiscal Year)

> Legal Reference
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-222 Appropriations and budget
>   * 10-248a Unexpended Education Funds Account

*Policy adopted:  April 27, 2016*

