## 3250 - Materials/Service Fees, Charges

In accord with Connecticut General Statutes' requirement to provide a free public school education the Board of Education will provide at no cost to students all instructional equipment, books and materials as it deems necessary, needed to maintain the desired instructional program subject to reasonable rules concerning their care and use.  No fees, deposits or other charges not specifically outlined in an approved student handbook, course guide, or parent handbook shall be levied.

Students shall be charged for damaged or lost textbooks, library/media materials and other educational equipment or materials.  Fines and assessments shall be levied, collected and disbursed subject to regulation by the Building Principal.  The schools are authorized to withhold transcripts, grades, diplomas or report cards until payment for a return of the textbook, library/media, or other educational equipment or material is made.

The Superintendent of Schools shall yearly review fees established for all equipment and facility rentals, admissions to athletic or extracurricular events, field tips/excursions and other related fees that may be assessed. 

### Copies of Records

Any person who applies in writing shall receive a plain or certified copy of any public record.  The maximum fee per page allowable under the Connecticut Freedom of Information Act will be charged.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 1-15 Application for copies of public records

* 10-221 Boards of education to prescribe rules

* 10-228 Free textbooks, supplies, material and equipment

* 10-228a Free textbooks, supplies, material and equipment

* 10-229 Change of textbooks

**Policy adopted:  June 10, 1999**

