## 3280.1 - Computer / Technology Donation

The Board of Education welcomes donations of computers and computer-related equipment, but reserves the right to accept or reject any donation based on the assessment of its relevance to the technological needs of the District by the Director of Information Technology, or their designee.

In accordance with the District guidelines on charitable donations, donations of computers and computer-related equipment shall be accepted for the District as a whole, and not for a particular school. At the discretion of the Superintendent, the Director of Information Technology, or one of their designees, technology donations may be designated for use in a particular school.

1. All computer donations will be handled the same whether from a corporation, a business or a private individual.

2. All donation offers should be referred to the school principal or his/her designee.

3. The Director of Information Technology or his/her designee will contact the donor to gather technical information about the donation and explain our donation process.

4. Designated members of the technology staff will review technical information about the donation. Donations may be rejected due to age and/or processor speed, make and/or proprietary components, physical and/or operating condition or other reasons.

5. If a donation is declined, the Director of Information Technology will notify the donor in writing of the reason(s) why the donation is not being accepted.

6. If the donated item(s) has a net value of less than $1,500, the Director of Information Technology will write a thank you letter to the donor and send a copy to the Superintendent of Schools.

7. If the donated item(s) have a net value of $1,500 or more, the donation will be handled through the Business Manager’s office in accordance with established gift giving policy and procedures.

8. If the donation is from an individual, a letter acceptable for tax purposes, including fair market value of the donated computers at the time of donation will be supplied upon request.

9. If the donation is from a business firm that requests tax credit documentation, they will need a computer donation agreement.  The computers must be new or in functional condition at the time of donation. They must be in good working condition.  Please note that if computers are donated to an individual school within a district, including a magnet school, the local or regional board of education of that district must accept them on behalf of that school.  The firm donating the computers will also need to complete the "Computer Donation Credit Application" - State of Connecticut, Department of Revenue Services, Form CT-CDC.

10. If a parent organization expresses a desire to buy technology-based products including but not limited to computer hardware, software and/or peripherals for specific school or for the district, the Director of Instructional Technology needs to be involved in the planning and decision-making process. The Director will ensure that the gift is consistent with existing technology, planned technology improvements and the instructional needs of the school and/or district.

11. If a parent organization expresses a desire to buy materials for a Library Media Center including, but not limited to, books, videos, CD-ROMs and/or DVDs; the Library Media Department Supervisor or his/her designee needs to be involved in the planning and decision-making process. The Library Media Department Supervisor or his/her designee will ensure that the gift is consistent with the existing collection, planned acquisitions and the instructional needs of the school and/or district.

\(cf. [3280](/policies/3000/3280.md) - Gifts, Grants, and Bequests)

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-228b. Tax credits for donation of computers to schools

**Approved: September 14, 2016**

