## 3280 - Gifts, Grants and Bequests

The Board of Education may accept on behalf of and for the schools any bequest or gift of money or property for a purpose deemed by the Board of Education to be suitable, and to utilize such money or property so designated.

The Superintendent of Schools shall set up criteria to be met in the acceptance of gifts, and the procedure for examining and evaluating offers of gifts to the district.

All gifts shall be accepted for the school district as a whole, and not for a particular school. At the discretion of the Superintendent, the gift may be used in a particular school.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 7-194 Powers.
>   * 10-9 Bequests for educational purposes.

**Policy adopted:  June 10, 1999**

Any gift presented to the school district must be accompanied by a letter from the donor identifying the subject and purpose of the gift and any restrictions that may apply for official action and recognition by the Board of Education.

To be acceptable, a gift must satisfy the following criteria:

1.  Have a purpose consistent with those of the school district.

2.  Be offered by a donor acceptable to the Board of Education.

3.  Will not add to staff load.

4.  Will not begin a program which the Board of Education would be unwilling to take over when the gift or grant funds are exhausted.

5.  Would not bring undesirable or hidden costs to the school district.

6.  Will place no restrictions on the school program.

7.  Will not be inappropriate or harmful to the best education of students.

8.  Will not imply endorsement of any business or product.

9.  Will not be in conflict with any provision of the school code or public law.

All gifts, grants and bequests shall become the property of the school system.

A letter of appreciation will be sent to the donor.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 7-194 Powers
>   * 10-9 Bequests for educational purposes

**Regulation approved:  June 10, 1999**

