## 3281 - Student Fund-Raising Activities

Any activity, club or group wishing to raise funds on behalf or in the name of a Killingly school or school organization that wishes to conduct any fund-raising activity must submit its request, in writing, to the school Principal at least twenty (20) days prior to the proposed activity.

The school Principal will act on the request within ten (10) days for receipt.  No organization may conduct a fund-raiser in the name of a Killingly school or its students without the written permission of the Principal or his/her designee.

In formulating a request to conduct a fund-raiser, the activity, club or group will specify the purpose for which funds are to be raised.  When considering a request, the administration will give strong consideration to the purpose for the fund-raiser, the organization’s current Student Activity Account balance and the organization’s actual need for the proposed funds.

When raising funds for an activity, club or group, all funds will be designated to a general fund for that particular activity, club or group to be used to support all related operational expenses of such activity, club or group.

All athletic organizations, including booster clubs, will initially contact the Athletic Director for his/her approval.  Final approval can only be granted by the Principal or his/her designee.

General solicitation of the business community and door-to-door fund-raising will be kept to a minimum.  Any student who solicits money in the name of a Killingly school, or any of its recognized student organizations, must carry a letter of identification signed by the school principal indicating school approval of this fund-raising activity.

Organizational advisers will inform their students that, wherever possible, payment for items or services sold should be by personal check made payable to the organization.

In no way will the school or school district stand behind any product sold nor will it assume any legal or financial responsibility for the fund-raising activity.

All funds raised will be maintained in the Study Activity Account and accounted for separately.  Legally incorporated organizations and one recognized official parent/teacher organization in each school may maintain separate accounts.

Any solicitation for any fund-raiser shall be done by members of the school community.  No telemarketing or professional fund-raising organizations shall be involved with fund-raising.

**Revised:**

* June 20, 2002
* September 12, 2002

