## 3282 - Receipt of Funds

he Killingly Board of Education authorizes the receipt of funds in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes.

### Public Gifts and/or Donations To The Schools

Gifts and/or donations which may serve to enhance and extend the work of the schools may be received by the district.  It shall be the general policy of the district to direct those who desire to make contributions to consider equipment or services that are not likely to be acquired from public fund expenditures.

Receipt of these funds shall not be used to advertise or advance a product and/or item for sale other than name recognition at the discretion by the Board of Education or its designee.  Receipt of funds shall conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and reported annually to the Board of Education and expenditures of such funds shall be at the discretion of the Board of Education. Notwithstanding this language, the Board of Education, by vote of two-thirds, may agree to expend such funds in accordance with the wishes of the donor. 

The Killingly Board of Education endorses the establishment of a Foundation for the Advancement of Education (sic) in accordance with Federal Regulations 501(3)(c).

### Student Activity Fees

From time to time, the Killingly Board of Education or its designee may assign a general Student Activity fee to be assessed to each student or a specific Student Activity fee to be assessed per participant per activity.

**Policy Adopted:  November 13, 2002**
