## 3313 - Relations with Vendors

The school district shall not extend favoritism to any vendors. Each order shall be placed on the basis of quality, price and delivery with past service being a factor if all other considerations are equal.

### Conflicts of Interest and Endorsements

The district will not purchase supplies or materials from a staff member of the school district, nor from a member of the household of the staff member unless the purchase follows the formal purchasing procedures.

Employees of the district will not endorse products or services in such a manner that will identify him/her as an employee of the district.

No member of the Board of Education shall secure or attempt to secure personal profit or gain by virtue of his/her position as a member of the Board of Education.

### Contracts

All contracts between the district and outside agencies shall conform to prescribed standards as required by law.

All contracts between the district and outside agencies shall be prepared under the supervision of the Superintendent or designee, and where appropriate, subject to approval of the legal advisor to the district.

### Affirmative Action

The school district shall not enter into any contract with a person, agency, or organization if it has knowledge that such person, agency or organization discriminates on the basis of race, color, religious creed, age, marital status, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, or physical handicap or disability, either in employment practices or in the provision of benefits or services to students or employees.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 46a-58 through 46a-81 re discriminatory practices
> * Title VII, Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq. as amended by Title IX, Equal Employment Opportunity Act
> * Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972; 42 U.S.C. 1134n et seq.  (Higher Education Act)

**Policy adopted:  June 10, 1999**

