## 3323 - Competitive Bidding and Quotations

This policy shall apply to purchases made from any accounts within the Board's jurisdiction.

The Board of Education shall deal fairly with all vendors and contractors.

Purchase orders or contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible, qualified bidder or quoter, consideration being given to the qualities of the articles to be supplied, their conformity with the specifications, their suitability to the requirements of the educational system, the delivery terms and the past performance of vendors

### Vendor or Contractor Relations

No member or employee of this Board shall accept either directly or indirectly, any gifts from any person, firm or corporation doing, or desiring to do business with the school district.

### Definitions

1. **Quotation**:  A notice, either orally or in writing, whereby a vendor informs the purchaser of the conditions and price under which he will furnish supplies, materials, equipment, or services to the purchaser.

2. **Bid**: A notice, in writing in a sealed envelope, delivered to the buyer by a specified date, to be opened in public at a specified date and time by the purchaser, whereby a vendor or contractor informs the purchaser of the conditions and price under which he will furnish supplies, materials, equipment, or services to the purchaser in response to specifications set forth by the purchaser.

### Amount of Purchase and Procedures to Follow

1. **Less than $1,000** - Oral or written quotations shall be used as appropriate.

2. **$1,000 - $9,999** - The district shall solicit written quotations unless the nature of the commodity or service prohibits effective competitive pricing and if such solicitation is to the advantage of the district.

3. **$10,000 and Up** - All purchases for $10,000 or more shall be bid unless the nature of the commodity or service prohibits bidding, and if the bidding is to the advantage of the school district. Bids shall be advertised appropriately. Solicitation for bids shall also be made from the “Mailing List for Bidders” maintained in the Superintendent’s office.  All bids must be submitted in sealed envelopes and marked appropriately on the outside of the envelope. Bids shall be opened at the time specified. Bid openings shall be public. The school district reserves the right to reject any or all bids or quotes and reserves the right to waive any informalities in any bid. On repetitive bids, the Superintendent shall determine the frequency with which such bids shall be let. The Superintendent shall inform the Board of all bids awarded pursuant to this policy.

  In the case where the Superintendent intends on making an award to other than the lowest bidder, he must provide the Board of Education with five (5) days written-notice of such intent.

4. **Emergency Situation** - In an emergency situation, the procedures of sections 2 and 3 may be eliminated. Whether a given situation is an emergency situation shall be decided by the Superintendent of Schools with a report to the Board at its next regular meeting.

### Opportunity for Suppliers

Opportunity shall be provided to all responsible suppliers and contractors to do business with the district. To this end, the Superintendent of Schools shall develop and maintain lists of potential suppliers and contractors for the various types of materials, equipment, supplies, and services. Such lists shall be used in the development of a mailing list for distribution of specifications and invitations to bid or provide quotes. Any supplier or contractor may be included in the list upon request.

Each June, the Superintendent of Schools shall appropriately publicize the existence of the Mailing List of Suppliers and Contractors, and invite persons, firms, or corporations interested in doing business with the school district to register for the Mailing List.  In addition, at any time, any person, firm, or corporation may request to be placed on the mailing list by so informing the school. Names shall be removed from the list for the following reasons:

a.  Failure to submit a quotation and/or bid after two successive requests to quote or bid

b.  Failure to live up to terms of previous contracts

c.  Request of vendor or contractor

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-222 Appropriations and budget

**Policy adopted:  June 10, 1999**
