## 3453 - Student Activity Fund

### I.   Introduction- Legal Authority

Any local or regional board of education in the State of Connecticut may establish and maintain in its custody a school activity fund to handle the funds of schools and school organizations not otherwise provided for by town appropriations under Section 10-237 of the Connecticut General Statutes.  The funds shall be maintained pursuant to Board Policy #3453.

### II.   Purpose

School activity funds may be established to handle school funds and the funds of school organizations.  Although control of the funds shall remain in the name of the respective schools and organizations, the funds are fiduciary funds held on behalf of the students. The raising and expending of activity money by student bodies shall have but one purpose- to promote the general welfare, education and morale of students and to finance the reasonable, co-curricular and school activities of the student body. 

Student activity money shall, insofar as possible, be expended in such a way as to benefit those students who have contributed to the accumulation of the money.  Funds should be of an exchange nature, raised and expended for a specific purpose.  Large balances should not be allowed to accumulate.

The following guidelines have been established to govern the school activity accounting and ensure efficient procedures for the creation, operation and culmination of activity funds.

### III.   Principles Governing Activity Fund Accounting

The accounting procedures outlined in this section are based on the following principles:

A.  The administration of the activity funds shall be governed by rules and regulations prescribed by the State of Connecticut and Killingly Public Schools.

B.  The Principal of the school, as treasurer for the fund, shall be directly responsible for the conduct of the student financial activities in accordance with policies, rules and procedures set forth by the State and the school district.

C.  The Principal of the school, as treasurer for the fund, shall be directly responsible for all activity funds within the school and shall be responsible for the maintenance of records and administration of procedures as prescribed by Central Administration.

D.  The Manager of Business Affairs shall have the responsibility and authority to implement all procedures and rules pertaining to the administration of activity funds in schools in accordance with the established policies of the Killingly Board of Education. Any questions related to the operation or administration of the school activity funds should be directed to the Manager of Business Affairs.

### IV.  Operation and Management of School Activity Funds

Terminology for purposes of this document:

Financial Advisor- the individual who has been designated to oversee the accounting involved with a school activity fund at the school level

Activity/Department Advisor- the individual who has been appointed or designated to oversee an activity or department

A.  General Procedures

1.    The Superintendent or Principal of each school shall designate one person who shall be authorized to receive, deposit and account for funds.  At the high school and intermediate school, at least two signatures shall be required for all withdrawals.  These rules shall apply to savings as well as checking accounts.  Supporting evidence shall be required prior to signing the check or withdrawal slip.  Blank checks shall never be issued or signed.  Such action makes the signer personally liable for anything recorded over his/her signature.

2.   No checking or savings accounts will be established for programs or activities authorized by the Board of Education without the knowledge and consent of the Board of Education and the Superintendent.

3.    Interest shall be earned on savings and checking accounts whenever possible.  Where interest is accrued, it will be placed in an income and expense account.  After operational costs, such as check printing charges, have been deducted, the interest will be allocated at the end of the fiscal year to each student activity on a pro-rata basis of each account’s monthly balance.

4.    Regular monthly and annual reports shall be prepared by the Principal or Financial Advisor and submitted to the Manager of Business Affairs.  These reports are detailed in Section F. Reporting.

5.   Student activity funds must not be used to circumvent management or purchasing decisions made by the Board of Education or the administration.

6.   Student activity funds shall not be used for any purpose that represents an accommodation, loan or credit to any person.

7.   As several activities are generally served by one account, all activities must maintain a positive balance.

8.    School activity records and financial procedures shall be subject to periodic and random audits by internal personnel and annual audits by outside independent auditors.  Audit reports shall be referred to the Principal and Central Administration for information purposes and possible improvement of procedures.

B.   Opening an Account within the School Activity Fund

The activity/department advisor will complete an application for approval form available from the Financial Advisor and forward it to the school principal for approval.  The form should include the name of the account/activity and the activity/dept advisor responsible for making deposits and requesting disbursements for that account/activity.

Upon approval, a copy of the approved application will be returned to the activity/dept advisor and a copy will be forwarded to the Financial Advisor.  The Financial Advisor will establish an account to be used for the activity.

Student activity accounting should ensure that the identity of each activity’s resources, obligations, revenues and expenditures is maintained.

C.   Closing an Account within the School Activity Fund

Per Killingly Board of Education Regulation 3453 approved June 10, 1999 “A class in its senior year, or an organization that is disbanding, shall determine at a regularly called meeting, its preference for the disposition of any funds remaining after all financial obligations have been discharged.  Such disposition shall be subject to the review and approval of the administration.  Any sums of money expended and for which no disposition has been made shall be transferred to the student council account of the school activity fund six (6) months after the class has graduated or the organization disbanded.”

Activity accounts at the High School that are not classified as “Class of “ will be closed if the account is inactive for two consecutive fiscal years.  If the balance is less than $100, it will be allocated among the remaining accounts based on their balances at the time the account is being closed.  If the balance is greater than $100, every effort will be made to return the funds to the students for which they were intended.  If every effort proves unsuccessful, the funds shall be allocated among the existing accounts based on their balances. 

D.   Receipts

1.  Receipts by Activity/Dept Advisor

a.  The activity/dept advisor is responsible for ensuring that all receipts are accurately recorded and deposited with the Financial Advisor.

b.  Funds should be turned in to the Financial Advisor within 24 hours of receipt.

c.  Cash receipts shall include supporting documentation.  For example, if Ms. Doe is organizing a field trip and collecting money from students, the deposit receipt shall include a class list of those students who have paid.  Other examples would include the number of fruit bars, tickets, gifts, etc. sold.  The receipt should also include a brief summary of the reason for the deposit.  These receipts should be retained by the activity/dept advisor.

d.  A deposit request form should be completed indicating the name of the activity and the composition of the deposit.

2.  Receipts by Financial Advisor

a.  The Financial Advisor is responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the receipts from the activity/dept advisors.

b.  All monies collected from any source must be substantiated by pre-numbered duplicate-copy receipts.

The receipts shall note:  the date funds were received, the depositor, the composition of the deposit (i.e. cash, checks, money orders), the purpose/club to whom the funds belong, and be signed by the receiver.

The original receipt is to be given to the activity/dept advisor from whom the money is received. The copy is to be retained by the Principal or Financial Advisor as permanent record of money received.

c.   All collections should be deposited in the bank in a timely manner; daily, if possible.  The monies collected shall be placed in a school safe or other locked repository until deposits can be made.  All checks to be deposited shall be endorsed immediately upon receipt, showing a restrictive endorsement, i.e. FOR DEPOSIT ONLY.  Deposits for field trips, or other monies to be re-disbursed, must be in the bank before check requests drawn against funds collected will be processed.

d.   The bank’s deposit receipt should be retained with the duplicate deposit slip and the deposit request form(s).

3.    Donations:   Donations received may be deposited into the school activity account.  Donations of $500. or greater must be reported by the activity/dept advisor to the Financial Advisor who will submit a listing to the Manager of Business Affairs along with the monthly bank reconciliation.

E.   Disbursements

1.   All requests for expenditures will be made via printed payment request forms (RFP) signed by the activity/dept advisor.  These request forms will be submitted to the Principal, or Assistant Principal if so delegated, for approval.  Disbursements shall be supported by invoice or documentation bearing signatures verifying receipt of the merchandise or service.  Upon approval, the RFP will be forwarded to the Financial Advisor for check preparation. 

2.   All disbursements of school activity funds shall be made using pre-numbered checks.   No expenses should be paid in cash directly from sales or receipts.  The check number shall serve as the basis for making an entry recording the disbursement.  Checks will be prepared by the Financial Advisor and submitted to the principal along with the completed payment request form for signature.  Accuracy of prices, extensions, and totals should be checked prior to payment.  All checks at the high school and intermediate school require two authorized signatures.  No disbursements shall be made payable to CASH.  Signed checks and payment forms will be returned to the Financial Advisor for distribution and record retention.

3.   All purchases are tax-exempt.  Tax exempt forms are available in the Central Office. Sales taxes will not be paid or reimbursed.  Individuals paying tax are liable for that payment. 

4.   Under no circumstances should a district employee be paid salaries or wages directly from an activity account for any type of service.

F.   Reporting

1.   Forms W-9 and 1099 Misc

Any vendor that is not incorporated (LLCs are not considered corporations for this purpose) and provides services (sales of goods do not apply) must fill out IRS Form W-9.  The activity/dept advisor should procure this form from the vendor before a payment request form is submitted. The completed W-9 should be forwarded to the Manager of Business Affairs.  (If you are not sure if a vendor is incorporated, have them complete the W-9.)  At the end of each calendar year, all vendors who provided services and the amount paid should be reported to the Central Office.  The Financial Advisor is not responsible for issuing 1099-Misc, but is responsible for gathering the information and reporting it to the Manager of Business Affairs.

2.   Monthly Reconciliation of Bank Statements

Monthly bank statements shall be reconciled with the activity fund within two weeks of receipt of the statement.  A detailed list of outstanding checks must support the reconciliation.  Any checks outstanding for more than six months must be brought to the Principal’s attention with a request for approval to either write-off or void and reissue the check.

3.   Monthly Financial Statements

At the end of each month the Principal or Financial Advisor shall prepare a statement with the financial status of each activity making up the activity fund.  A copy of the statement, check register and bank reconciliation will be forwarded to the Manager of Business Affairs.  Additionally, a status report or a copy of each individual activity account will be forwarded to the respective activity/dept advisor for verification if there was any activity during that month.  The activity/dept advisor should verify it against his/her records and bring any discrepancies to the attention of the Financial Advisor immediately.

4.   Annual Financial Statement

At the end of each fiscal year the Principal or Financial Advisor shall prepare an annual financial statement.  The statement shall contain the beginning balance, receipts, disbursements and ending balance for each activity account and shall be signed by the Principal.  The statement shall be filed with the Manager of Business Affairs no later than August 1.

5.   Annual Audit

An annual audit shall be conducted each year by the Town Auditor in conjunction with the annual Town and Board of Education audit.  Copies of the audit report shall be maintained as a permanent record.

G.  Disposal of Records

Records related to school activity funds are subject to the minimum retention requirements established by retention schedules issued by the Office of the Public Records Administrator and governed by Connecticut General Statutes Section 7-109 and Section11-8.  Records may not be destroyed until the Office of the Public Records Administrator has returned a signed disposal authorization form. 

1.  Form RC-075 “Records Disposal Authorization, Connecticut Towns, Municipalities, and Boards of Education” must be completed by the Financial Advisor and submitted to the Manager of Business Affairs.  Information required on this form, such as Item Number and Record Series Title, can be found on “Municipal Records Retention Schedule M3” Fiscal Records. This information can be obtained on the Connecticut State Library website www.cslib.org/publicrecords or from the Manager of Business Affairs.  The signatures of the Town Manager and Superintendent of Schools are required.  The Manager of Business Affairs will send the application to the Connecticut State Library Public Records Administration for approval and notify the Financial Advisor when approval is received.

2.  In general, the fiscal records related to school activity funds (bank statements, paid bills, check registers, invoices, receipt books, etc.) have a minimum retention period of “3 years or until audited, whichever comes later”.  They may be retained for longer periods if desired. 

3.  All records should be shredded, preferably with certification.  Shredding facilities are available within the district.  Any questions regarding destruction of records should be directed to the Manager of Business Affairs.

Regulation:

**Revised:  January 28, 2010**

