## 3455 - High School Concession Stand

The Killingly High School concession stand(s) shall be operated at school activities for the benefit of the student body of that school. A manager shall be appointed by the Superintendent of Schools, paid by concession revenue at a rate established by the Board, and charged with the overall management of the stand. The manager shall be responsible for the securing of supplies and new equipment, the scheduling of the operation, the upkeep of existing equipment, the orientation of the operating staff, and for providing an accounting of revenue and expenses. The manager shall deposit revenue received into a separate account with the treasurer of that account named by the Board. The manager’s stipend shall be paid from this account.

The manager should have completed the Food Awareness Safety Training or similar program from a Health Agency. The manager is to have equally competent people operating the stand.

Recognized student groups, by lottery if necessary, will be allowed to participate in stand activities and each group so involved will receive an equal share of the profits. A minimum of 10% of the net profits or $3000 shall be retained for stand maintenance and equipment purchase; the balance of the net profit shall be divided equally among the participating groups.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General. Statutes

* 10-237 School activity funds

**Policy adopted:  August 11, 2004**

1.  The manager will receive a stipend for each event supervised. The rate of stipend shall be revised from time to time.

2.  The treasurer of the concession stand account shall be the Superintendent of Schools.

3.  Accounting books shall be maintained in the central administrative office.

4.  The concession stand manager will be named by the Superintendent following an appropriate posting when vacancies occur.

5.  Purchases of supplies shall be done in conjunction with the Cafeteria Director where possible. Requests for payment shall be made by a voucher or purchase order system.

6.  Receipts from concession stand activities shall be counted by the manager and deposited as soon following an event as is possible.

7.  The stand should be inspected by the Northeast District Department of Health and run by their accepted regulations.

Legal Reference:  Connecticut General Statutes

* 10-237 School activity funds

**Regulation approved:  August 11, 2004**
