## 3515 - Community Use of Facilities

The Board of Education requires that all school buildings are owned by the Town of Killingly and should be operated so as to encourage their use by appropriate outside groups. Such use shall be approved by the Superintendent or his designee when such use is determined to be of significant community value.

Use of school facilities shall be permitted in the following priority:

A.  Public Emergency

B.  Town or Board of Education Meetings

C.  School Functions

D   Local Community Organizations - Free Use

E.  Local Community Organizations - Rental Use

F.  Private or Outside Organizations

The Board does not encourage the use of school facilities for private/for-profit activities.  The Superintendent is expected not to permit such activities except when a clear public interest is to be served.

The Board directs that Administrative Regulations be established to implement this policy.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-239 Use of school facilities for other purposes
> * Equal Access Act, 20 U.S.C. ss 4071-4074

**Policy adopted:  June 10, 1999**

---

**GENERAL**: Use of school facilities will be permitted for community organizations for worthwhile purposes when such use will not interfere with the school program.

**APPLICATION**: Application for the use of the school facilities shall be made in writing to the appropriate principal and should be made at least twenty-one (21) days in advance. Applicants for the use of school facilities must abide by all Board of Education regulations for the use of the school. The principal shall maintain a calendar of activities. The principal shall discuss any questions related to approval prior to submitting the application to the Superintendent. Consideration shall be given to special maintenance of the schools in scheduling activities during holiday and vacation periods.

**APPROVAL OF APPLICATION**: The Superintendent or designee is authorized to approve use of school facilities and terminate such approval, if he/she deems this action necessary.

**RENTAL FEES**: There will be no rental fees charged for the use of the building to groups holding educational, civic, or recreational meetings and other uses pertaining directly to the welfare of the community.

There will be no rental fees charged where admission fees are charged when the proceeds are to be expended for an educational, civic, or charitable purpose. Such activities must have a local Killingly connection.

There shall be rental fees charged for building uses not outlined above except as determined by the Superintendent of Schools.

**OTHER CHARGES**: Organizations using the building will be required to pay for custodial coverage if needed outside of regular custodial hours or if special custodial coverage is necessary. Organizations using the kitchen will be required to pay one or more members of the regular cafeteria staff if such personnel are needed. Police and fire coverage, if required, shall be paid by the organization.

In addition to any rental fees charged, a service fee will be charged wherever the Killingly High School or Killingly Intermediate School auditorium are used. The purpose of this fee is to offset special costs associated with running these facilities. The charge, to be determined by the Superintendent of Schools, will be used to offset the costs of special lighting and sound equipment and for wear and tear to the auditorium facilities. Organizations using either of the auditoriums may be required to pay the cost of the student or staff lighting technician.

Decisions about whether or not custodial, cafeteria, technical, police or fire coverage are required, the amount to be charged, and arrangements for such coverage shall be the responsibility of the building principal, Supervisor of Operations and Maintenance, or, if necessary, the Superintendent of Schools.

### School Responsibilities

1.  The official calendar for use of each school's facilities will be maintained in the Principal's office.

2.  Once a facility has been assigned to a school or community group, only the Principal or Superintendent may make an exception to the scheduled use.

3.  The school will make every effort to be certain that any facility offered for use to the community is clean, appropriately arranged, and heated or air conditioned if necessary.

### Regulations For The Use of School Facilities

1.  The organization using the facility must agree to assume financial responsibility for all damage, destruction, or loss of school property occurring while the building is being used by them including providing a certificate of insurance if requested. Facilities used shall be left as found.

2.  The organization using the facility must agree to provide a certificate of insurance naming the Killingly Board of Education, the Town of Killingly, its agents and servants as additional insured. The face amount of the insurance policy shall be not less than $1,000,000.

3.  The organization using the facility must agree to be responsible for the conduct of all persons in attendance at the activity. Adequate adult supervision shall be provided for all minor groups.

4.  No organization may use the building beyond 12:00 midnight except by special arrangement.

5.  Persons attending any functions must confine themselves to the areas assigned for their use.

6.  Smoking is prohibited in school buildings.

7.  Sale, use or possession of alcoholic beverages or illegal substances are prohibited inside the school building or on school property.

8.  Rental fees will be determined periodically by the Board of Education.

For activities requiring rehearsal time, one free rehearsal per event will be permitted without additional cost.

**Regulation approved:  June 10, 1999**

