## 3517 - Security of Buildings and Grounds

Buildings constitute one of the greatest investments of the school district. It is in the best interest of students and taxpayers to protect that investment adequately.

Security includes:

1. Developing at each school, in compliance with the requirements of P.A 13-3, a school security and safety plan, in partnership with other community groups, including, but not limited to, law enforcement, fire safety officials, emergency medical services, as well as health and mental health professionals. Such plan shall be based upon the school security and safety plan standards developed by the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection \(DESPP\).  Training and practice necessary and essential for implementation of the crisis response plan.  Law enforcement and other local public safety officials shall evaluate, score and provide feedback on fire drills and crisis response drills.

2. Controlling access to school grounds and facilities.

3. Conducting a security and vulnerability assessment for each District school every two years.

4. Submitting annual reports to DESPP regarding fire drills and crisis response drills.

5. Establishing a School Security and Safety Committee at each school, responsible for assisting in the development of the school's security and safety plan and its implementation. \(membership as required by P.A. 13-3\)

6. Minimizing fire hazards.

7. Reducing the probability of faulty equipment.

8. Guarding against the chance of electrical shock.

9. Keeping records and funds in a safe place.

10. Protecting against vandalism and burglary.


The Superintendent of Schools is directed to establish such rules and regulations as may be needed to provide for security as outlined above.

\(cf. [3516](/policies/3000/3516.md) - Safe and Secure School Facilities; Equipment and Grounds\)

\(cf. [4148.1](/policies/4000/4148-1.md)\/4248.1 - School Security and Safety Committee\)

> Legal Reference:
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-220 Duties of boards of education
>   * 29-389 Stairways and Fire escapes on certain buildings
> 
> * P.A. 13-3 An Act Concerning Gun Violence Protection and Children's Safety

**Policy adopted: November 13, 2013**

---

Incidents of illegal entry, theft of school property, vandalism or damage to school property from other causes will be reported by phone to the office of the Superintendent as soon after discovery as possible. A written report of the incident will be made within 24 hours of discovery.

### Keys

All keys used in a school shall be the responsibility of the Principal. Requests for permanent issuance of keys shall be made only in those instances where the employee regularly needs a key in order to carry out normal activities necessitated by the position which the employee holds. When need for a particular key is of a temporary nature, a key shall be issued on that basis and shall be returned immediately following termination of the need for its use.

All keys shall be issued through the office of the Principal. A receipt showing the number of the key and room\(s\) or building\(s\) which it opens shall be signed by the person to whom the key is issued. This receipt shall be filed in lieu of the key and shall be returned to the employee upon return of the key.

The Principal shall set up a key control system with a record of the number or each key filed.

The person issued a key shall be responsible for its safekeeping and shall pay for a duplicate key if lost. Duplicate keys are obtained only through the school system Business Office. The Board of Education prohibits the duplication of school keys otherwise.

Keys shall be used only by authorized employees and shall never be loaned to students.

The greatest care shall be given to master and sub-master keys.  Master keys shall never be loaned.

### Use of Personal Appliances-Proposed Regulation

The Killingly Public Schools recognizes that the use of personal appliances in all district buildings presents an economic impact and potential safety risk. All appliances not owned, operated or maintained by the Board of Education must be approved by building administration and approved as operationally safe at the beginning of each academic year. Preliminary authorization and use of a personal appliance is granted when the employee has filed a written usage form and it is acknowledged as meeting specific guidelines by the building administration. Preliminary authorization will be determined based on type of appliance, electrical consumption issues, safety risk-hazard, location and other areas that are accessible to students. Authorization in classrooms and other areas accessible to students will be extremely limited. Safety inspections \[device meets compliance with safety standards\] will be conducted by a qualified Operations and Maintenance employee. Any appliance determined not to be in compliance with safety standards will be denied and shall then be immediately removed from the building. All appliances approved shall be used in accordance with manufacturer's use and safety standards.

_Prohibited Appliances_

Prohibited appliances shall include but not limited to the following items:  heat incandescent lights, hot plates, space heaters without tip control switches and plug-in air fresheners. The Board of Education reserves the right to deny the use of any personal appliance at its sole discretion.

_Responsibilities of Faculty-Staff-Employee_

Any employee of the Board of Education requesting the use of a personal appliance within a building owned, operated and maintained by the Board of Education shall follow the following guidelines and procedures.

Prior to transporting and using a personal appliance the employee \/ owner shall complete and submit the "personal appliance usage authorization form" to building administration for review and preliminary authorization. Upon receiving preliminary authorization the employee \/ owner may only locate the appliance in the building as specified in the authorization form.

The appliance may be used pending a safety inspection conducted by a qualified Operations and Maintenance employee. If the appliance meets safety standards a safety tag-sticker will be affixed on the appliance authorizing the use for the current academic year. If the appliance does not meet safety standards the employee \/ owner shall refrain from using the appliance and immediately remove it from the premises.

It is strongly recommended that all approved appliances, except refrigerators, be unplugged at the end of the school day.

The appliance shall be removed from the building by the end of business on the last day of school. Any appliance remaining thereafter shall be removed and placed in storage.

The Board of Education reserves the right to conduct periodic unannounced inspections of any and all personal appliances.

_Responsibilities of Administration_

An administrator receiving a completed "personal appliance usage authorization form" shall, within a reasonable time period, review the contents and determine compliance for usage.

If compliance is met \/ not met administration shall follow the following guidelines and procedures.

If compliance is met administration shall, within a reasonable time period, submit the completed request for authorization to the Supervisor of Operations and Maintenance for review and to conduct a safety inspection. The safety inspection shall be conducted within a reasonable time period. If the appliance meets safety standards a safety tag-sticker will be affixed on the appliance authorizing the use for the current academic year. In either case \[meets or does not meet safety standards\] the Supervisor of Operations and Maintenance or designee shall, within a reasonable time period, return the completed form to administration for final disposition.

If compliance is met \/ not met administration shall, as soon as possible, notify the employee in writing of final disposition. When compliance is not met administration shall cause the immediate removal of the appliance from the premises.

A copy of all submitted \[approved or not approved\] personal appliance usage authorization forms shall be maintained in an official appliance log by each building administration and the Supervisor of Operations and Maintenance.

_Program Approval Agencies and Reference Information._

All approved appliances will conform to the following:

* Code of Federal Register \(CFR\)1910.303 9\(a\) Approval and 1910.303 \(b\)\(2\) Installation and Use

* Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory \(NRTL\)

* Underwriters Laboratory \(UL\) \(UL 197\) for commercial cooking appliances and UL 1082 section 50 for household coffee makers.

* UL section 52, 53, 54

* 29 CFR 1910 subpart S 29 CFR 1910.304 \(f\)\(5\)\(v\)\(C\)\(5\) \(cord and plug connected appliances\)


**Regulation approved:  May 11, 2011**

