## 3524.1 - Hazardous Material in Schools

### Pest Management/Pesticide Application

The Board of Education believes that structural and landscape pests can pose significant hazards to people, property and the environment.  Pests are living organisms such as plants, animals or microorganisms, that interfere with human uses for the school site.  Strategies for managing pest populations will be influenced by the pest species and the degree to which that population poses a threat to people, property or the environment.  Further, the Board also believes that pesticides can also pose hazards to people, property and the environment.  The intent of this policy is to ensure the health and safety of students, teachers, staff and all others using district buildings and grounds.

The goal of this pest management program is to manage pests in order to:

*  Reduce any potential human health hazard and/or to protect against a significant threat to public safety;

*  Prevent loss or damage to school structures or property;

*  Prevent pests from spreading in the community or to plant and animal populations beyond the site;

*  Enhance the quality of life and to provide a safe and healthy learning environment for students, staff and others.

The school district shall incorporate Integrated Pest Management procedures (IPM) to manage structural and landscape pests and the toxic chemicals for their control in order to alleviate pest problems with the least possible hazard to people, property and the environment.  In addition, staff, students and the public shall be educated, at least annually, about potential school pest problems and the IPM policies and procedures to be used to achieve the desired pest management objectives.  Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is the coordinated use of pest and environmental information with available pest control methods to prevent unacceptable levels of pest damage by the most economical means with the least possible hazard.

IPM procedures will determine when to control pests and whether to use mechanical, physical, chemical, cultural or biological means.  Chemical controls shall be used as a last resort.  The Board establishes that the school district shall use pesticides only after consideration of the full range of alternatives, including no action, based upon an analysis of environmental effects, safety, effectiveness and costs.  The Superintendent or his/her designee shall be responsible to implement Integrated Pest Management (IPM) procedures and to coordinate communications with members of the staff who are responsible for pest control, such as maintenance personnel and custodians, and hired contractors when utilized by the district to control a pest problem.  The Maintenance Supervisor/Head Custodian shall be designated as the IPM supervisor and shall direct and supervise all IPM procedures to be carried out by assigned maintenance and/or custodial staff.

All district employees who use chemicals to control a pest problem must be trained and shall follow all precautions and application regulations.  Effective July 1, 2000, the District will only employ certified pesticide applicators for any necessary and non-emergency pesticide use in school building or on school grounds.  Contractors hired to do this work shall give evidence of appropriate training and certification in the proper use of pesticides.  Pest control contractors shall be utilized, when deemed necessary, to inspect for conditions conducive to pest problems and to develop appropriate prevention measures.  Pest control contractors will be expected to write recommendations for structural improvements or repairs and housekeeping and sanitation measures required to reduce or prevent recurrence of pest problems.

Whenever it is deemed necessary to use a chemical substance, that school must provide notification to all parents and staff who have registered for advanced notification in conformity with state statutes.  Parents/guardians and staff requesting advanced notification must be notified on the day of such use by any method practicable.  Notices shall also be posted in designated areas at school at least (suggested) forty-eight (48) hours prior to the application.

At the beginning of each school year and at the time a student is registered, parents/guardians shall be informed of the District’s pest management policy.  Those parents/guardians and staff who register a request shall be notified prior to every pesticide application.

Information regarding pesticides used and areas treated shall be maintained for a period of five years at the school site and available to the public and staff upon request.  The district shall establish and maintain accurate records of all chemical use and their location.  In addition, records of all pest control actions including information on indicators of pest activity that can verify the need for action.

Pesticide applications shall be limited to non-school hours and when activities are not taking place.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 22a-46. Short title:  Connecticut Pesticide Control Act.
>   * 22a-54.  Pesticide applicators, certification, classification, notice, fees, reciprocity; financial responsibility; aircraft, tree, public employee applicators.
>   * 22a-58.  Records to be kept by distributors and applicators.
>   * 23-61b.  Licensing for arboriculture; examination; fees; renewal; suspension, revocation.  Nonresidents.  Records.  Pesticides.
> * P.A. 99-165 An Act Concerning Notice of Pesticide Application In Schools and Day Care Centers.
> * Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA)
> * 7 U.S. Code 136 et seq.

**Policy adopted:  March 10, 2004**

---

### Pest Management/Pesticide Application

In determining when to control pests and whether to use mechanical, physical, chemical, cultural or biological means, the District shall follow the principles of Integrated Pest Management (IPM).  The Superintendent or his/her designee shall ensure that the District follows Integrated Pest Management procedures so as to use the most appropriate and least toxic method of control.

Procedures shall include the following:

1.  The choice of using a pesticide will be based on a review of all other available options and a determination that these options are not acceptable or not feasible.  The full range of alternatives, including no action, will be taken.

2.  Selected non-chemical pest management methods will be used whenever possible to provide the desired control.  Cost or staffing considerations alone will not be adequate justification for use of chemical control agents.

3.  The pest and the site of infestation shall be carefully identified.  Strategies for managing the pest will be influenced by the pest species and whether that species poses a threat to people, property or the environment.

4.  When it is determined that a pesticide must be used, the least hazardous material will be chosen and applied in accordance with EPA registered label directions.

5.  Pesticides shall be stored in a secure site not accessible to students or unauthorized staff.  Such storage and any disposal of the pesticide shall be in accordance with EPA – registered label directions.

6.  Staff, students and parents/guardians shall receive information about the District’s Integrated Pest Management policy and procedures and notification of any upcoming pesticide treatments.  Notice of upcoming pesticide treatments shall also be posted in areas designated by the Superintendent or his/her designee.

7.  The following records shall be maintained at each school site:

  a.  Records of pesticide use at the site for a period of five years.

  b.  Pest surveillance data sheets that record the number of pests or other indicators of pest populations that verify the need for treatments.

8.  Persons applying pesticides shall follow label precautions and shall be trained in the principles and practices of Integrated Pest Management (IPM).  Sanitary measures shall be enforced and buildings regularly cleaned and repaired in order to prevent infestations, minimize the use of pesticides, and eliminate routine spraying.

9.  Sanitary measures shall be enforced and buildings regularly cleaned and repaired in order to prevent infestations, minimize the use of pesticides and to eliminate routine spraying.

10.  An emergency application of pesticides is defined as when an application of pesticides is necessary to eliminate an immediate threat to human health and where it is impractical to obtain the services of a certified pesticide applicator provided such emergency application does not involve a restricted use pesticide as defined in CGS 22a-47.  Restricted use pesticides may be used only by certified applicators or under their direct supervision.  (Note:  Restricted use pesticides, classified by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency or the DEP are those which may present a hazard to the applicator or other people by reason of acute dermal or inhalation toxicity or which may have an unreasonable adverse effect on the environment.)

11.  On or after July 1, 2000, at the beginning of each school year, the Board of Education shall provide the staff of each school and the parents/guardians of each child enrolled in each school with written guidelines on how the integrated pest management plan is to be implemented and shall provide the parents or guardians of each child enrolled in each school with a statement that shall include a summary of the integrated pest management plan for the school.  Such statements and descriptions shall also be provided to the parents/guardians of any child who transfers to a school during the school year.

12.  The aforementioned required statement shall indicate to staff, parents and guardians that they may register for prior notice of school pesticide applications.  Further, the emergency notification procedures to be used will be described.

14.  The aforementioned notice shall include the (1) name of the active ingredient of the pesticide to be applied, (2) location of the application, (3) date of application, (4) the name of the school administrator or his/her designee who may be contacted for further information.

15.  No application of pesticide, after July 1, 2000, may be made in any building or on school grounds during regular school hours or during planned activities at the school except for an emergency application.

16.  If an emergency application is necessary to eliminate an immediate threat to human health, such application shall not involve a restricted use pesticide and no child may enter the area of such application until it is safe to do so according to the provisions on the pesticide label.

17.  In cases of an emergency application, effective July 1, 2000, prior notice is not necessary except that on or before the day the application is to take place, prior notice is given to those persons who have previously requested such notice.

**Regulation Adopted:  March 10, 2004**

