## 3541.3 - Routes and Services (Transportation)

The Superintendent shall direct the study of bus routes in order to provide the safest, shortest routes which will get all students to school in the most economical way. Routes shall be arranged in such a way as to equalize, as nearly as possible, the length of routes and bus loads and to provide for the full use of buses. Arrangements shall provide each student transportation to school within the prescribed time limits. As a guideline, bus routes shall begin no earlier than 45 minutes before school opens and students shall not be in transit from school more than 45 minutes.

Bus routes shall not overlap unless absolutely necessary. When more than one bus travels on an arterial highway, each bus shall be assigned a certain portion of the route and all children within this section shall ride the bus to which they are assigned. Only one bus shall cover one particular road unless overloading occurs.

Three copies of each official route shall be made prior to the opening of school. One copy shall be sent to the driver and one to the building administrator of the school. The third copy shall be kept on file in the Superintendent's office. The official bus route shall not be extended or changed until such proposed change has been checked to determine whether it meets all rules and regulations pertaining to safety, efficiency and economy.

Buses shall not go off the main bus route to pick up children unless the distance is one-half mile or more. Students shall not be allowed off the bus until they reach their approved destination.

> Legal Reference: 
> 
> * Connecticut General Statutes
>   * 10-97 Transportation to vocational schools.
>   * 10-186 Duties of local and regional boards of education re school attendance.
>   * 10-220 Duties of boards of education.
>   * 10-220c Transportation of children over private roads.
>   * 10-233a and 10-233c Suspension of students.

**Regulation approved:  June 10, 1999**

