## 3542.43 - Lunch Charging

### Collection of Payment for School Meals

The purpose of this policy is to establish consistent meal account procedures throughout the Killingly Public Schools ("KPS").

1.  Free and Reduced Lunch Students:

  a.  Free lunch status students will not be allowed to have a negative account balance. Free lunch status allows a student to receive a free meal every day. A la carte items are not part of the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA") program.

  b.  Reduced lunch status students will be allowed to have a negative account balance up to a maximum dollar equivalent of six reduced price meals which will be known as the "account cap." Reduced lunch status allows a student to receive reduced price meals.

2.  All Other Students:

  a.  **Elementary school** students will be allowed to charge up to a maximum dollar equivalent of three meals which will be known as the "account cap."

  These meals will include anything on the menu.

  Notices of low or deficit balances will be sent to parents/guardians at regular intervals during the school year, including, but not limited to, when balances reach $5 and $10

  When the student reaches the "account cap" they will only be offered a designated menu alternate. Sample: Cheese sandwich + veggie sticks + fruit + milk.

  This designated menu alternate will be charged to the student's lunch account at the standard lunch rate. It will be reported as a meal to the state and federal school lunch authorities and thus will be eligible for reimbursement. Parents/guardians are responsible for payment of these meals to the School Nutrition program.

  Once the student reaches the maximum meal charge, no a la carte items will be sold to the student and all transactions may become a cash basis transaction.

  b.  **Middle school** students will be allowed to charge up to a maximum dollar equivalent of two meals, which will be known as the "account cap." After those two charges, they will not be allowed to charge any school meals which cause their school lunch account to go into a deficit balance.

    * These meals will include anything on the menu.

    * Notices of low or deficit balances will be sent to parents/guardians at regular intervals during the school year, including, but not limited to, when balances reach $5 and $10.

  **Middle School**

    * When the student reaches the "account cap" he/she will only be offered a designated menu alternate. Sample: Cheese sandwich + veggie sticks + fruit + milk.

    * This designated menu alternate will be charged to the student's lunch account at the standard lunch rate. It will be reported as a meal to the state and federal school lunch authorities and thus will be eligible for reimbursement. Parents/guardians are responsible for payment of these meals to the School Nutrition program.

    * Once the student reaches the maximum meal charge, no a la carte items will be sold to the student and all transactions may become a cash basis transaction.

  c.  **High school** students will be allowed to charge up to a maximum dollar equivalent of one meal. After that one charge, they will not be allowed to charge any school meals which cause their school lunch accounts to go into a deficit balance.

    * These meals will include anything on the menu.

    * Notices of low or deficit balances will be sent to parents/guardians at regular intervals during the school year, including, but not limited to, when balances reach $5 and $10. Notices will be sent to high school students as well, through their e-mail accounts.

    * When the student reaches the "account cap" he/she will only be offered a designated menu alternate. Sample: Cheese sandwich + veggie sticks + fruit + milk.

    * This designated menu alternate will be charged to the student's lunch account at the standard lunch rate. It will be reported as a meal to the state and federal school lunch authorities and thus will be eligible for reimbursement. Parents/guardians are responsible for payment of these meals to the School Nutrition program.

    * Once the student reaches the maximum meal charge, no a la carte items will be sold to the student and all transactions may become a cash basis transaction.

3. **Balances Owed**: Collection of Balances will follow Board of Education policy on Materials, Service Fees and Charges (see Policy 3250). This policy will apply to any account balances above the "account cap" at any time on or after May 1, and any payments made by check that are returned to the district by the bank with notice of "insufficient funds."

  Balances may be checked at any time by contacting the Food Service Director or his designee. All accounts must be settled at the end of the school year. Letters will be sent home approximately four to five days before the last day of school to the parents/guardians of elementary students whose accounts are low.

  a.  **Checks Returned for Non-Sufficient Funds (NSF)**: When a check is returned to the KPS Business Office for insufficient funds, a letter will be sent from the KPS to so inform the parents/guardians.

  Payment for the NSF check must be in the form of cash, cashiers check, or money order. Payment must be received within ten (10) days of the date of the letter. Any penalty fee will be made payable to the Killingly Public Schools and sent to the Business Office, at 79 Westfield Avenue, PO Box 210, Killingly, CT 06239-0210.  The penalty fee and the amount of the check will be deducted from the child/children's lunch account immediately upon notice from the bank and the above-mentioned rules will take effect.

  b.  **Balances Owed with No Response by Parent/Guardian**: If the payment is not received, the Superintendent or his/her designee may take one or more of the following actions, unless or until prohibited from doing so by state law or regulation:

    * Delay the issuance of report cards, transfer cards, and class assignments until obligations are met.

    * Prohibit participation of the student in the USDA program.

    * Prohibit participation of the student, and/or other students in the student's household, in any future fee-based program unless or until outstanding balances are resolved.

    * Prohibit student participation in senior activities and/or graduation exercises.

    * Referral to Small Claims Court, collection agency and/or State's Attorney's Office.

4.  At the first of May, the School Nutrition program must begin to close its financial records for the school and fiscal year. As a result, the point of sale system will be blocked from accepting deficit account balances including the account cap limits.

  a.  "Parents/Guardians will be sent a written request for "Payment in Full". (The deposit requests will be mailed home).

  Students who forget money or have a zero balance will only be offered a designated menu alternate. Sample: Cheese sandwich + veggie sticks + fruit + milk.

  This designated menu alternate will be charged to the student's lunch account at the standard lunch rate. It will be reported as a meal to the state and federal school lunch authorities and thus will be eligible for reimbursement. Parents/guardians are responsible for payment of these meals to the KPS Business Office.

  b.  All charges not paid before the end of the school year will be carried forward into the next school year.

  c.  Seniors must pay all charges before receiving their cap and gown.

  d.  All seniors will receive a notice in May of remaining money in their lunch account. They will receive a letter to elect to move money into sibling lunch accounts or to elect a refund. All refund requests will be sent to the KPS Business Office to be processed for payment.

5.  All school cafeterias possess computerized point of sale / cash register systems that maintain a record of all moneys deposited and spent for each student and said record will be made available to the parent upon request. The Food Service Department shall inform parents that meals can be paid for in advance and the balances maintained in their child's account to minimize the possibility that the child may be without meal money on any given day. If a student is without meal money on a consistent basis, the Food Service Department will investigate the situation more closely, including contacting the parent/guardian to bring money to the school and/or encouraging the parent to apply for free or reduced price meals.

  a.  **Blocks on Accounts**: A parent may call the Food Service Director to place a block on their child's account to prohibit the purchase of a la carte items or to set a dollar cap. The KPS Manager of Business Affairs may instruct the Food Service Director to place a block on a student's account due to non-payment of district fees or due to other collection issues.

  b. **Refunds**

    * **Withdrawn Students**: For any student who is withdrawn, a written request for a refund of any money remaining in his/her account must be submitted. An e-mail request is also acceptable.

    * **Graduating Students**: Students who are graduating at the end of the year will be given a refund. Funds can also be transferred to a sibling's account with a written request.

  c.  **Unclaimed Funds**: All refunds must be requested within one year. Unclaimed funds will then become the property of the KPS.

**Policy Approved:  June 24, 2015**

